The Strange Case Of Dr. Jekyll And Mr. Hydeby Robert Louis StevensonContentsSTORY OF THE DOORSEARCH FOR MR. HYDEDR. JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASETHE CAREW MURDER CASEINCIDENT OF THE LETTERINCIDENT OF DR. LANYONINCIDENT AT THE WINDOWTHE LAST NIGHTDR. LANYON’S NARRATIVEHENRY JEKYLL’S FULL STATEMENT OF THE CASESTORY OF THE DOORMr. Utterson the lawyer was a man of a rugged countenance that wasnever lighted by a smile; cold, scanty and embarrassed in discourse;backward in sentiment; lean, long, dusty, dreary and yet somehowlovable. At friendly meetings, and when the wine was to his taste,something eminently human beaconed from his eye; something indeed whichnever found its way into his talk, but which spoke not only in thesesilent symbols of the after-dinner face, but more often and loudly inthe acts of his life. He was austere with himself; drank gin when hewas alone, to mortify a taste for vintages; and though he enjoyed thetheatre, had not crossed the doors of one for twenty years. But he hadan approved tolerance for others; sometimes wondering, almost withenvy, at the high pressure of spirits involved in their misdeeds; andin any extremity inclined to help rather than to reprove. “I incline toCain’s heresy,” he used to say quaintly: “I let my brother go to thedevil in his own way.” In this character, it was frequently his fortuneto be the last reputable acquaintance and the last good influence inthe lives of downgoing men. And to such as these, so long as they cameabout his chambers, he never marked a shade of change in his demeanour.No doubt the feat was easy to Mr. Utterson; for he was undemonstrativeat the best, and even his friendship seemed to be founded in a similarcatholicity of good-nature. It is the mark of a modest man to accepthis friendly circle ready-made from the hands of opportunity; and thatwas the lawyer’s way. His friends were those of his own blood or thosewhom he had known the longest; his affections, like ivy, were thegrowth of time, they implied no aptness in the object. Hence, no doubtthe bond that united him to Mr. Richard Enfield, his distant kinsman,the well-known man about town. It was a nut to crack for many, whatthese two could see in each other, or what subject they could find incommon. It was reported by those who encountered them in their Sundaywalks, that they said nothing, looked singularly dull and would hailwith obvious relief the appearance of a friend. For all that, the twomen put the greatest store by these excursions, counted them the chiefjewel of each week, and not only set aside occasions of pleasure, buteven resisted the calls of business, that they might enjoy themuninterrupted.It chanced on one of these rambles that their way led them down aby-street in a busy quarter of London. The street was small and what iscalled quiet, but it drove a thriving trade on the weekdays. Theinhabitants were all doing well, it seemed and all emulously hoping todo better still, and laying out the surplus of their grains incoquetry; so that the shop fronts stood along that thoroughfare with anair of invitation, like rows of smiling saleswomen. Even on Sunday,when it veiled its more florid charms and lay comparatively empty ofpassage, the street shone out in contrast to its dingy neighbourhood,like a fire in a forest; and with its freshly painted shutters,well-polished brasses, and general cleanliness and gaiety of note,instantly caught and pleased the eye of the passenger.Two doors from one corner, on the left hand going east the line wasbroken by the entry of a court; and just at that point a certainsinister block of building thrust forward its gable on the street. Itwas two storeys high; showed no window, nothing but a door on the lowerstorey and a blind forehead of discoloured wall on the upper; and borein every feature, the marks of prolonged and sordid negligence. Thedoor, which was equipped with neither bell nor knocker, was blisteredand distained. Tramps slouched into the recess and struck matches onthe panels; children kept shop upon the steps; the schoolboy had triedhis knife on the mouldings; and for close on a generation, no one hadappeared to drive away these random visitors or to repair theirravages.Mr. Enfield and the lawyer were on the other side of the by-street; butwhen they came abreast of the entry, the former lifted up his cane andpointed.“Did you ever remark that door?” he asked; and when his companion hadreplied in the affirmative, “It is connected in my mind,” added he,“with a very odd story.”“Indeed?” said Mr. Utterson, with a slight change of voice, “and whatwas that?”“Well, it was this way,” returned Mr. Enfield: “I was coming home fromsome place at the end of the world, about three o’clock of a blackwinter morning, and my way lay through a part of town where there wasliterally nothing to be seen but lamps. Street after street and all thefolks asleep—street after street, all lighted up as if for a processionand all as empty as a church—till at last I got into that state of mindwhen a man listens and listens and begins to long for the sight of apoliceman. All at once, I saw two figures: one a little man who wasstumping along eastward at a good walk, and the other a girl of maybeeight or ten who was running as hard as she was able down a crossstreet. Well, sir, the two ran into one another naturally enough at thecorner; and then came the horrible part of the thing; for the mantrampled calmly over the child’s body and left her screaming on theground. It sounds nothing to hear, but it was hellish to see. It wasn’tlike a man; it was like some damned Juggernaut. I gave a few halloa,took to my heels, collared my gentleman, and brought him back to wherethere was already quite a group about the screaming child. He wasperfectly cool and made no resistance, but gave me one look, so uglythat it brought out the sweat on me like running. The people who hadturned out were the girl’s own family; and pretty soon, the doctor, forwhom she had been sent put in his appearance. Well, the child was notmuch the worse, more frightened, according to the sawbones; and thereyou might have supposed would be an end to it. But there was onecurious circumstance. I had taken a loathing to my gentleman at firstsight. So had the child’s family, which was only natural. But thedoctor’s case was what struck me. He was the usual cut and dryapothecary, of no particular age and colour, with a strong Edinburghaccent and about as emotional as a bagpipe. Well, sir, he was like therest of us; every time he looked at my prisoner, I saw that sawbonesturn sick and white with the desire to kill him. I knew what was in hismind, just as he knew what was in mine; and killing being out of thequestion, we did the next best. We told the man we could and would makesuch a scandal out of this as should make his name stink from one endof London to the other. If he had any friends or any credit, weundertook that he should lose them. And all the time, as we werepitching it in red hot, we were keeping the women off him as best wecould for they were as wild as harpies. I never saw a circle of suchhateful faces; and there was the man in the middle, with a kind ofblack sneering coolness—frightened too, I could see that—but carryingit off, sir, really like Satan. ‘If you choose to make capital out ofthis accident,’ said he, ‘I am naturally helpless. No gentleman butwishes to avoid a scene,’ says he. ‘Name your figure.’ Well, we screwedhim up to a hundred pounds for the child’s family; he would haveclearly liked to stick out; but there was something about the lot of usthat meant mischief, and at last he struck. The next thing was to getthe money; and where do you think he carried us but to that place withthe door?—whipped out a key, went in, and presently came back with thematter of ten pounds in gold and a cheque for the balance on Coutts’s,drawn payable to bearer and signed with a name that I can’t mention,though it’s one of the points of my story, but it was a name at leastvery well known and often printed. The figure was stiff; but thesignature was good for more than that if it was only genuine. I tookthe liberty of pointing out to my gentleman that the whole businesslooked apocryphal, and that a man does not, in real life, walk into acellar door at four in the morning and come out with another man’scheque for close upon a hundred pounds. But he was quite easy andsneering. ‘Set your mind at rest,’ says he, ‘I will stay with you tillthe banks open and cash the cheque myself.’ So we all set off, thedoctor, and the child’s father, and our friend and myself, and passedthe rest of the night in my chambers; and next day, when we hadbreakfasted, went in a body to the bank. I gave in the cheque myself,and said I had every reason to believe it was a forgery. Not a bit ofit. The cheque was genuine.”“Tut-tut!” said Mr. Utterson.“I see you feel as I do,” said Mr. Enfield. “Yes, it’s a bad story. Formy man was a fellow that nobody could have to do with, a reallydamnable man; and the person that drew the cheque is the very pink ofthe proprieties, celebrated too, and (what makes it worse) one of yourfellows who do what they call good. Blackmail, I suppose; an honest manpaying through the nose for some of the capers of his youth. Black MailHouse is what I call the place with the door, in consequence. Thougheven that, you know, is far from explaining all,” he added, and withthe words fell into a vein of musing.From this he was recalled by Mr. Utterson asking rather suddenly: “Andyou don’t know if the drawer of the cheque lives there?”“A likely place, isn’t it?” returned Mr. Enfield. “But I happen to havenoticed his address; he lives in some square or other.”“And you never asked about the—place with the door?” said Mr. Utterson.“No, sir; I had a delicacy,” was the reply. “I feel very strongly aboutputting questions; it partakes too much of the style of the day ofjudgment. You start a question, and it’s like starting a stone. You sitquietly on the top of a hill; and away the stone goes, starting others;and presently some bland old bird (the last you would have thought of)is knocked on the head in his own back garden and the family have tochange their name. No sir, I make it a rule of mine: the more it lookslike Queer Street, the less I ask.”“A very good rule, too,” said the lawyer.“But I have studied the place for myself,” continued Mr. Enfield. “Itseems scarcely a house. There is no other door, and nobody goes in orout of that one but, once in a great while, the gentleman of myadventure. There are three windows looking on the court on the firstfloor; none below; the windows are always shut but they’re clean. Andthen there is a chimney which is generally smoking; so somebody mustlive there. And yet it’s not so sure; for the buildings are so packedtogether about the court, that it’s hard to say where one ends andanother begins.”The pair walked on again for a while in silence; and then “Enfield,”said Mr. Utterson, “that’s a good rule of yours.”“Yes, I think it is,” returned Enfield.“But for all that,” continued the lawyer, “there’s one point I want toask. I want to ask the name of that man who walked over the child.”“Well,” said Mr. Enfield, “I can’t see what harm it would do. It was aman of the name of Hyde.”“Hm,” said Mr. Utterson. “What sort of a man is he to see?”“He is not easy to describe. There is something wrong with hisappearance; something displeasing, something down-right detestable. Inever saw a man I so disliked, and yet I scarce know why. He must bedeformed somewhere; he gives a strong feeling of deformity, although Icouldn’t specify the point. He’s an extraordinary looking man, and yetI really can name nothing out of the way. No, sir; I can make no handof it; I can’t describe him. And it’s not want of memory; for I declareI can see him this moment.”Mr. Utterson again walked some way in silence and obviously under aweight of consideration. “You are sure he used a key?” he inquired atlast.“My dear sir...” began Enfield, surprised out of himself.“Yes, I know,” said Utterson; “I know it must seem strange. The factis, if I do not ask you the name of the other party, it is because Iknow it already. You see, Richard, your tale has gone home. If you havebeen inexact in any point you had better correct it.”“I think you might have warned me,” returned the other with a touch ofsullenness. “But I have been pedantically exact, as you call it. Thefellow had a key; and what’s more, he has it still. I saw him use itnot a week ago.”Mr. Utterson sighed deeply but said never a word; and the young manpresently resumed. “Here is another lesson to say nothing,” said he. “Iam ashamed of my long tongue. Let us make a bargain never to refer tothis again.”“With all my heart,” said the lawyer. “I shake hands on that, Richard.”SEARCH FOR MR. HYDEThat evening Mr. Utterson came home to his bachelor house in sombrespirits and sat down to dinner without relish. It was his custom of aSunday, when this meal was over, to sit close by the fire, a volume ofsome dry divinity on his reading desk, until the clock of theneighbouring church rang out the hour of twelve, when he would gosoberly and gratefully to bed. On this night however, as soon as thecloth was taken away, he took up a candle and went into his businessroom. There he opened his safe, took from the most private part of it adocument endorsed on the envelope as Dr. Jekyll’s Will and sat downwith a clouded brow to study its contents. The will was holograph, forMr. Utterson though he took charge of it now that it was made, hadrefused to lend the least assistance in the making of it; it providednot only that, in case of the decease of Henry Jekyll, M.D., D.C.L.,L.L.D., F.R.S., etc., all his possessions were to pass into the handsof his “friend and benefactor Edward Hyde,” but that in case of Dr.Jekyll’s “disappearance or unexplained absence for any period exceedingthree calendar months,” the said Edward Hyde should step into the saidHenry Jekyll’s shoes without further delay and free from any burthen orobligation beyond the payment of a few small sums to the members of thedoctor’s household. This document had long been the lawyer’s eyesore.It offended him both as a lawyer and as a lover of the sane andcustomary sides of life, to whom the fanciful was the immodest. Andhitherto it was his ignorance of Mr. Hyde that had swelled hisindignation; now, by a sudden turn, it was his knowledge. It wasalready bad enough when the name was but a name of which he could learnno more. It was worse when it began to be clothed upon with detestableattributes; and out of the shifting, insubstantial mists that had solong baffled his eye, there leaped up the sudden, definite presentmentof a fiend.“I thought it was madness,” he said, as he replaced the obnoxious paperin the safe, “and now I begin to fear it is disgrace.”With that he blew out his candle, put on a greatcoat, and set forth inthe direction of Cavendish Square, that citadel of medicine, where hisfriend, the great Dr. Lanyon, had his house and received his crowdingpatients. “If anyone knows, it will be Lanyon,” he had thought.The solemn butler knew and welcomed him; he was subjected to no stageof delay, but ushered direct from the door to the dining-room where Dr.Lanyon sat alone over his wine. This was a hearty, healthy, dapper,red-faced gentleman, with a shock of hair prematurely white, and aboisterous and decided manner. At sight of Mr. Utterson, he sprang upfrom his chair and welcomed him with both hands. The geniality, as wasthe way of the man, was somewhat theatrical to the eye; but it reposedon genuine feeling. For these two were old friends, old mates both atschool and college, both thorough respectors of themselves and of eachother, and what does not always follow, men who thoroughly enjoyed eachother’s company.After a little rambling talk, the lawyer led up to the subject which sodisagreeably preoccupied his mind.“I suppose, Lanyon,” said he, “you and I must be the two oldest friendsthat Henry Jekyll has?”“I wish the friends were younger,” chuckled Dr. Lanyon. “But I supposewe are. And what of that? I see little of him now.”“Indeed?” said Utterson. “I thought you had a bond of common interest.”“We had,” was the reply. “But it is more than ten years since HenryJekyll became too fanciful for me. He began to go wrong, wrong in mind;and though of course I continue to take an interest in him for oldsake’s sake, as they say, I see and I have seen devilish little of theman. Such unscientific balderdash,” added the doctor, flushing suddenlypurple, “would have estranged Damon and Pythias.”This little spirit of temper was somewhat of a relief to Mr. Utterson.“They have only differed on some point of science,” he thought; andbeing a man of no scientific passions (except in the matter ofconveyancing), he even added: “It is nothing worse than that!” He gavehis friend a few seconds to recover his composure, and then approachedthe question he had come to put. “Did you ever come across a _protégé_of his—one Hyde?” he asked.“Hyde?” repeated Lanyon. “No. Never heard of him. Since my time.”That was the amount of information that the lawyer carried back withhim to the great, dark bed on which he tossed to and fro, until thesmall hours of the morning began to grow large. It was a night oflittle ease to his toiling mind, toiling in mere darkness and besiegedby questions.Six o’clock struck on the bells of the church that was so convenientlynear to Mr. Utterson’s dwelling, and still he was digging at theproblem. Hitherto it had touched him on the intellectual side alone;but now his imagination also was engaged, or rather enslaved; and as helay and tossed in the gross darkness of the night and the curtainedroom, Mr. Enfield’s tale went by before his mind in a scroll of lightedpictures. He would be aware of the great field of lamps of a nocturnalcity; then of the figure of a man walking swiftly; then of a childrunning from the doctor’s; and then these met, and that humanJuggernaut trod the child down and passed on regardless of her screams.Or else he would see a room in a rich house, where his friend layasleep, dreaming and smiling at his dreams; and then the door of thatroom would be opened, the curtains of the bed plucked apart, thesleeper recalled, and lo! there would stand by his side a figure towhom power was given, and even at that dead hour, he must rise and doits bidding. The figure in these two phases haunted the lawyer allnight; and if at any time he dozed over, it was but to see it glidemore stealthily through sleeping houses, or move the more swiftly andstill the more swiftly, even to dizziness, through wider labyrinths oflamplighted city, and at every street corner crush a child and leaveher screaming. And still the figure had no face by which he might knowit; even in his dreams, it had no face, or one that baffled him andmelted before his eyes; and thus it was that there sprang up and grewapace in the lawyer’s mind a singularly strong, almost an inordinate,curiosity to behold the features of the real Mr. Hyde. If he could butonce set eyes on him, he thought the mystery would lighten and perhapsroll altogether away, as was the habit of mysterious things when wellexamined. He might see a reason for his friend’s strange preference orbondage (call it which you please) and even for the startling clause ofthe will. At least it would be a face worth seeing: the face of a manwho was without bowels of mercy: a face which had but to show itself toraise up, in the mind of the unimpressionable Enfield, a spirit ofenduring hatred.From that time forward, Mr. Utterson began to haunt the door in theby-street of shops. In the morning before office hours, at noon whenbusiness was plenty and time scarce, at night under the face of thefogged city moon, by all lights and at all hours of solitude orconcourse, the lawyer was to be found on his chosen post.“If he be Mr. Hyde,” he had thought, “I shall be Mr. Seek.”And at last his patience was rewarded. It was a fine dry night; frostin the air; the streets as clean as a ballroom floor; the lamps,unshaken by any wind, drawing a regular pattern of light and shadow. Byten o’clock, when the shops were closed, the by-street was verysolitary and, in spite of the low growl of London from all round, verysilent. Small sounds carried far; domestic sounds out of the houseswere clearly audible on either side of the roadway; and the rumour ofthe approach of any passenger preceded him by a long time. Mr. Uttersonhad been some minutes at his post, when he was aware of an odd lightfootstep drawing near. In the course of his nightly patrols, he hadlong grown accustomed to the quaint effect with which the footfalls ofa single person, while he is still a great way off, suddenly spring outdistinct from the vast hum and clatter of the city. Yet his attentionhad never before been so sharply and decisively arrested; and it waswith a strong, superstitious prevision of success that he withdrew intothe entry of the court.The steps drew swiftly nearer, and swelled out suddenly louder as theyturned the end of the street. The lawyer, looking forth from the entry,could soon see what manner of man he had to deal with. He was small andvery plainly dressed and the look of him, even at that distance, wentsomehow strongly against the watcher’s inclination. But he madestraight for the door, crossing the roadway to save time; and as hecame, he drew a key from his pocket like one approaching home.Mr. Utterson stepped out and touched him on the shoulder as he passed.“Mr. Hyde, I think?”Mr. Hyde shrank back with a hissing intake of the breath. But his fearwas only momentary; and though he did not look the lawyer in the face,he answered coolly enough: “That is my name. What do you want?”“I see you are going in,” returned the lawyer. “I am an old friend ofDr. Jekyll’s—Mr. Utterson of Gaunt Street—you must have heard of myname; and meeting you so conveniently, I thought you might admit me.”“You will not find Dr. Jekyll; he is from home,” replied Mr. Hyde,blowing in the key. And then suddenly, but still without looking up,“How did you know me?” he asked.“On your side,” said Mr. Utterson “will you do me a favour?”“With pleasure,” replied the other. “What shall it be?”“Will you let me see your face?” asked the lawyer.Mr. Hyde appeared to hesitate, and then, as if upon some suddenreflection, fronted about with an air of defiance; and the pair staredat each other pretty fixedly for a few seconds. “Now I shall know youagain,” said Mr. Utterson. “It may be useful.”“Yes,” returned Mr. Hyde, “It is as well we have met; and _à propos_,you should have my address.” And he gave a number of a street in Soho.“Good God!” thought Mr. Utterson, “can he, too, have been thinking ofthe will?” But he kept his feelings to himself and only grunted inacknowledgment of the address.“And now,” said the other, “how did you know me?”“By description,” was the reply.“Whose description?”“We have common friends,” said Mr. Utterson.“Common friends,” echoed Mr. Hyde, a little hoarsely. “Who are they?”“Jekyll, for instance,” said the lawyer.“He never told you,” cried Mr. Hyde, with a flush of anger. “I did notthink you would have lied.”“Come,” said Mr. Utterson, “that is not fitting language.”The other snarled aloud into a savage laugh; and the next moment, withextraordinary quickness, he had unlocked the door and disappeared intothe house.The lawyer stood awhile when Mr. Hyde had left him, the picture ofdisquietude. Then he began slowly to mount the street, pausing everystep or two and putting his hand to his brow like a man in mentalperplexity. The problem he was thus debating as he walked, was one of aclass that is rarely solved. Mr. Hyde was pale and dwarfish, he gave animpression of deformity without any nameable malformation, he had adispleasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with a sort ofmurderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky,whispering and somewhat broken voice; all these were points againsthim, but not all of these together could explain the hitherto unknowndisgust, loathing and fear with which Mr. Utterson regarded him. “Theremust be something else,” said the perplexed gentleman. “There _is_something more, if I could find a name for it. God bless me, the manseems hardly human! Something troglodytic, shall we say? or can it bethe old story of Dr. Fell? or is it the mere radiance of a foul soulthat thus transpires through, and transfigures, its clay continent? Thelast, I think; for, O my poor old Harry Jekyll, if ever I read Satan’ssignature upon a face, it is on that of your new friend.”Round the corner from the by-street, there was a square of ancient,handsome houses, now for the most part decayed from their high estateand let in flats and chambers to all sorts and conditions of men;map-engravers, architects, shady lawyers and the agents of obscureenterprises. One house, however, second from the corner, was stilloccupied entire; and at the door of this, which wore a great air ofwealth and comfort, though it was now plunged in darkness except forthe fanlight, Mr. Utterson stopped and knocked. A well-dressed, elderlyservant opened the door.“Is Dr. Jekyll at home, Poole?” asked the lawyer.“I will see, Mr. Utterson,” said Poole, admitting the visitor, as hespoke, into a large, low-roofed, comfortable hall paved with flags,warmed (after the fashion of a country house) by a bright, open fire,and furnished with costly cabinets of oak. “Will you wait here by thefire, sir? or shall I give you a light in the dining-room?”“Here, thank you,” said the lawyer, and he drew near and leaned on thetall fender. This hall, in which he was now left alone, was a pet fancyof his friend the doctor’s; and Utterson himself was wont to speak ofit as the pleasantest room in London. But tonight there was a shudderin his blood; the face of Hyde sat heavy on his memory; he felt (whatwas rare with him) a nausea and distaste of life; and in the gloom ofhis spirits, he seemed to read a menace in the flickering of thefirelight on the polished cabinets and the uneasy starting of theshadow on the roof. He was ashamed of his relief, when Poole presentlyreturned to announce that Dr. Jekyll was gone out.“I saw Mr. Hyde go in by the old dissecting room, Poole,” he said. “Isthat right, when Dr. Jekyll is from home?”“Quite right, Mr. Utterson, sir,” replied the servant. “Mr. Hyde has akey.”“Your master seems to repose a great deal of trust in that young man,Poole,” resumed the other musingly.“Yes, sir, he does indeed,” said Poole. “We have all orders to obeyhim.”“I do not think I ever met Mr. Hyde?” asked Utterson.“O, dear no, sir. He never _dines_ here,” replied the butler. “Indeedwe see very little of him on this side of the house; he mostly comesand goes by the laboratory.”“Well, good-night, Poole.”“Good-night, Mr. Utterson.”And the lawyer set out homeward with a very heavy heart. “Poor HarryJekyll,” he thought, “my mind misgives me he is in deep waters! He waswild when he was young; a long while ago to be sure; but in the law ofGod, there is no statute of limitations. Ay, it must be that; the ghostof some old sin, the cancer of some concealed disgrace: punishmentcoming, _pede claudo_, years after memory has forgotten and self-lovecondoned the fault.” And the lawyer, scared by the thought, broodedawhile on his own past, groping in all the corners of memory, least bychance some Jack-in-the-Box of an old iniquity should leap to lightthere. His past was fairly blameless; few men could read the rolls oftheir life with less apprehension; yet he was humbled to the dust bythe many ill things he had done, and raised up again into a sober andfearful gratitude by the many he had come so near to doing yet avoided.And then by a return on his former subject, he conceived a spark ofhope. “This Master Hyde, if he were studied,” thought he, “must havesecrets of his own; black secrets, by the look of him; secrets comparedto which poor Jekyll’s worst would be like sunshine. Things cannotcontinue as they are. It turns me cold to think of this creaturestealing like a thief to Harry’s bedside; poor Harry, what a wakening!And the danger of it; for if this Hyde suspects the existence of thewill, he may grow impatient to inherit. Ay, I must put my shoulders tothe wheel—if Jekyll will but let me,” he added, “if Jekyll will onlylet me.” For once more he saw before his mind’s eye, as clear astransparency, the strange clauses of the will.DR. JEKYLL WAS QUITE AT EASEA fortnight later, by excellent good fortune, the doctor gave one ofhis pleasant dinners to some five or six old cronies, all intelligent,reputable men and all judges of good wine; and Mr. Utterson socontrived that he remained behind after the others had departed. Thiswas no new arrangement, but a thing that had befallen many scores oftimes. Where Utterson was liked, he was liked well. Hosts loved todetain the dry lawyer, when the light-hearted and loose-tongued hadalready their foot on the threshold; they liked to sit a while in hisunobtrusive company, practising for solitude, sobering their minds inthe man’s rich silence after the expense and strain of gaiety. To thisrule, Dr. Jekyll was no exception; and as he now sat on the oppositeside of the fire—a large, well-made, smooth-faced man of fifty, withsomething of a slyish cast perhaps, but every mark of capacity andkindness—you could see by his looks that he cherished for Mr. Uttersona sincere and warm affection.“I have been wanting to speak to you, Jekyll,” began the latter. “Youknow that will of yours?”A close observer might have gathered that the topic was distasteful;but the doctor carried it off gaily. “My poor Utterson,” said he, “youare unfortunate in such a client. I never saw a man so distressed asyou were by my will; unless it were that hide-bound pedant, Lanyon, atwhat he called my scientific heresies. O, I know he’s a good fellow—youneedn’t frown—an excellent fellow, and I always mean to see more ofhim; but a hide-bound pedant for all that; an ignorant, blatant pedant.I was never more disappointed in any man than Lanyon.”“You know I never approved of it,” pursued Utterson, ruthlesslydisregarding the fresh topic.“My will? Yes, certainly, I know that,” said the doctor, a triflesharply. “You have told me so.”“Well, I tell you so again,” continued the lawyer. “I have beenlearning something of young Hyde.”The large handsome face of Dr. Jekyll grew pale to the very lips, andthere came a blackness about his eyes. “I do not care to hear more,”said he. “This is a matter I thought we had agreed to drop.”“What I heard was abominable,” said Utterson.“It can make no change. You do not understand my position,” returnedthe doctor, with a certain incoherency of manner. “I am painfullysituated, Utterson; my position is a very strange—a very strange one.It is one of those affairs that cannot be mended by talking.”“Jekyll,” said Utterson, “you know me: I am a man to be trusted. Make aclean breast of this in confidence; and I make no doubt I can get youout of it.”“My good Utterson,” said the doctor, “this is very good of you, this isdownright good of you, and I cannot find words to thank you in. Ibelieve you fully; I would trust you before any man alive, ay, beforemyself, if I could make the choice; but indeed it isn’t what you fancy;it is not as bad as that; and just to put your good heart at rest, Iwill tell you one thing: the moment I choose, I can be rid of Mr. Hyde.I give you my hand upon that; and I thank you again and again; and Iwill just add one little word, Utterson, that I’m sure you’ll take ingood part: this is a private matter, and I beg of you to let it sleep.”Utterson reflected a little, looking in the fire.“I have no doubt you are perfectly right,” he said at last, getting tohis feet.“Well, but since we have touched upon this business, and for the lasttime I hope,” continued the doctor, “there is one point I should likeyou to understand. I have really a very great interest in poor Hyde. Iknow you have seen him; he told me so; and I fear he was rude. But I dosincerely take a great, a very great interest in that young man; and ifI am taken away, Utterson, I wish you to promise me that you will bearwith him and get his rights for him. I think you would, if you knewall; and it would be a weight off my mind if you would promise.”“I can’t pretend that I shall ever like him,” said the lawyer.“I don’t ask that,” pleaded Jekyll, laying his hand upon the other’sarm; “I only ask for justice; I only ask you to help him for my sake,when I am no longer here.”Utterson heaved an irrepressible sigh. “Well,” said he, “I promise.”THE CAREW MURDER CASENearly a year later, in the month of October, 18—, London was startledby a crime of singular ferocity and rendered all the more notable bythe high position of the victim. The details were few and startling. Amaid servant living alone in a house not far from the river, had goneupstairs to bed about eleven. Although a fog rolled over the city inthe small hours, the early part of the night was cloudless, and thelane, which the maid’s window overlooked, was brilliantly lit by thefull moon. It seems she was romantically given, for she sat down uponher box, which stood immediately under the window, and fell into adream of musing. Never (she used to say, with streaming tears, when shenarrated that experience), never had she felt more at peace with allmen or thought more kindly of the world. And as she so sat she becameaware of an aged beautiful gentleman with white hair, drawing nearalong the lane; and advancing to meet him, another and very smallgentleman, to whom at first she paid less attention. When they had comewithin speech (which was just under the maid’s eyes) the older manbowed and accosted the other with a very pretty manner of politeness.It did not seem as if the subject of his address were of greatimportance; indeed, from his pointing, it sometimes appeared as if hewere only inquiring his way; but the moon shone on his face as hespoke, and the girl was pleased to watch it, it seemed to breathe suchan innocent and old-world kindness of disposition, yet with somethinghigh too, as of a well-founded self-content. Presently her eye wanderedto the other, and she was surprised to recognise in him a certain Mr.Hyde, who had once visited her master and for whom she had conceived adislike. He had in his hand a heavy cane, with which he was trifling;but he answered never a word, and seemed to listen with anill-contained impatience. And then all of a sudden he broke out in agreat flame of anger, stamping with his foot, brandishing the cane, andcarrying on (as the maid described it) like a madman. The old gentlemantook a step back, with the air of one very much surprised and a triflehurt; and at that Mr. Hyde broke out of all bounds and clubbed him tothe earth. And next moment, with ape-like fury, he was trampling hisvictim under foot and hailing down a storm of blows, under which thebones were audibly shattered and the body jumped upon the roadway. Atthe horror of these sights and sounds, the maid fainted.It was two o’clock when she came to herself and called for the police.The murderer was gone long ago; but there lay his victim in the middleof the lane, incredibly mangled. The stick with which the deed had beendone, although it was of some rare and very tough and heavy wood, hadbroken in the middle under the stress of this insensate cruelty; andone splintered half had rolled in the neighbouring gutter—the other,without doubt, had been carried away by the murderer. A purse and goldwatch were found upon the victim: but no cards or papers, except asealed and stamped envelope, which he had been probably carrying to thepost, and which bore the name and address of Mr. Utterson.This was brought to the lawyer the next morning, before he was out ofbed; and he had no sooner seen it and been told the circumstances, thanhe shot out a solemn lip. “I shall say nothing till I have seen thebody,” said he; “this may be very serious. Have the kindness to waitwhile I dress.” And with the same grave countenance he hurried throughhis breakfast and drove to the police station, whither the body hadbeen carried. As soon as he came into the cell, he nodded.“Yes,” said he, “I recognise him. I am sorry to say that this is SirDanvers Carew.”“Good God, sir,” exclaimed the officer, “is it possible?” And the nextmoment his eye lighted up with professional ambition. “This will make adeal of noise,” he said. “And perhaps you can help us to the man.” Andhe briefly narrated what the maid had seen, and showed the brokenstick.Mr. Utterson had already quailed at the name of Hyde; but when thestick was laid before him, he could doubt no longer; broken andbattered as it was, he recognised it for one that he had himselfpresented many years before to Henry Jekyll.“Is this Mr. Hyde a person of small stature?” he inquired.“Particularly small and particularly wicked-looking, is what the maidcalls him,” said the officer.Mr. Utterson reflected; and then, raising his head, “If you will comewith me in my cab,” he said, “I think I can take you to his house.”It was by this time about nine in the morning, and the first fog of theseason. A great chocolate-coloured pall lowered over heaven, but thewind was continually charging and routing these embattled vapours; sothat as the cab crawled from street to street, Mr. Utterson beheld amarvelous number of degrees and hues of twilight; for here it would bedark like the back-end of evening; and there would be a glow of a rich,lurid brown, like the light of some strange conflagration; and here,for a moment, the fog would be quite broken up, and a haggard shaft ofdaylight would glance in between the swirling wreaths. The dismalquarter of Soho seen under these changing glimpses, with its muddyways, and slatternly passengers, and its lamps, which had never beenextinguished or had been kindled afresh to combat this mournfulreinvasion of darkness, seemed, in the lawyer’s eyes, like a districtof some city in a nightmare. The thoughts of his mind, besides, were ofthe gloomiest dye; and when he glanced at the companion of his drive,he was conscious of some touch of that terror of the law and the law’sofficers, which may at times assail the most honest.As the cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted alittle and showed him a dingy street, a gin palace, a low French eatinghouse, a shop for the retail of penny numbers and twopenny salads, manyragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of manydifferent nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morningglass; and the next moment the fog settled down again upon that part,as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly surroundings.This was the home of Henry Jekyll’s favourite; of a man who was heir toa quarter of a million sterling.An ivory-faced and silvery-haired old woman opened the door. She had anevil face, smoothed by hypocrisy: but her manners were excellent. Yes,she said, this was Mr. Hyde’s, but he was not at home; he had been inthat night very late, but he had gone away again in less than an hour;there was nothing strange in that; his habits were very irregular, andhe was often absent; for instance, it was nearly two months since shehad seen him till yesterday.“Very well, then, we wish to see his rooms,” said the lawyer; and whenthe woman began to declare it was impossible, “I had better tell youwho this person is,” he added. “This is Inspector Newcomen of ScotlandYard.”A flash of odious joy appeared upon the woman’s face. “Ah!” said she,“he is in trouble! What has he done?”Mr. Utterson and the inspector exchanged glances. “He don’t seem a verypopular character,” observed the latter. “And now, my good woman, justlet me and this gentleman have a look about us.”In the whole extent of the house, which but for the old woman remainedotherwise empty, Mr. Hyde had only used a couple of rooms; but thesewere furnished with luxury and good taste. A closet was filled withwine; the plate was of silver, the napery elegant; a good picture hungupon the walls, a gift (as Utterson supposed) from Henry Jekyll, whowas much of a connoisseur; and the carpets were of many plies andagreeable in colour. At this moment, however, the rooms bore every markof having been recently and hurriedly ransacked; clothes lay about thefloor, with their pockets inside out; lock-fast drawers stood open; andon the hearth there lay a pile of grey ashes, as though many papers hadbeen burned. From these embers the inspector disinterred the butt endof a green cheque book, which had resisted the action of the fire; theother half of the stick was found behind the door; and as this clinchedhis suspicions, the officer declared himself delighted. A visit to thebank, where several thousand pounds were found to be lying to themurderer’s credit, completed his gratification.“You may depend upon it, sir,” he told Mr. Utterson: “I have him in myhand. He must have lost his head, or he never would have left the stickor, above all, burned the cheque book. Why, money’s life to the man. Wehave nothing to do but wait for him at the bank, and get out thehandbills.”This last, however, was not so easy of accomplishment; for Mr. Hyde hadnumbered few familiars—even the master of the servant maid had onlyseen him twice; his family could nowhere be traced; he had never beenphotographed; and the few who could describe him differed widely, ascommon observers will. Only on one point were they agreed; and that wasthe haunting sense of unexpressed deformity with which the fugitiveimpressed his beholders.INCIDENT OF THE LETTERIt was late in the afternoon, when Mr. Utterson found his way to Dr.Jekyll’s door, where he was at once admitted by Poole, and carried downby the kitchen offices and across a yard which had once been a garden,to the building which was indifferently known as the laboratory ordissecting rooms. The doctor had bought the house from the heirs of acelebrated surgeon; and his own tastes being rather chemical thananatomical, had changed the destination of the block at the bottom ofthe garden. It was the first time that the lawyer had been received inthat part of his friend’s quarters; and he eyed the dingy, windowlessstructure with curiosity, and gazed round with a distasteful sense ofstrangeness as he crossed the theatre, once crowded with eager studentsand now lying gaunt and silent, the tables laden with chemicalapparatus, the floor strewn with crates and littered with packingstraw, and the light falling dimly through the foggy cupola. At thefurther end, a flight of stairs mounted to a door covered with redbaize; and through this, Mr. Utterson was at last received into thedoctor’s cabinet. It was a large room fitted round with glass presses,furnished, among other things, with a cheval-glass and a businesstable, and looking out upon the court by three dusty windows barredwith iron. The fire burned in the grate; a lamp was set lighted on thechimney shelf, for even in the houses the fog began to lie thickly; andthere, close up to the warmth, sat Dr. Jekyll, looking deathly sick. Hedid not rise to meet his visitor, but held out a cold hand and bade himwelcome in a changed voice.“And now,” said Mr. Utterson, as soon as Poole had left them, “you haveheard the news?”The doctor shuddered. “They were crying it in the square,” he said. “Iheard them in my dining-room.”“One word,” said the lawyer. “Carew was my client, but so are you, andI want to know what I am doing. You have not been mad enough to hidethis fellow?”“Utterson, I swear to God,” cried the doctor, “I swear to God I willnever set eyes on him again. I bind my honour to you that I am donewith him in this world. It is all at an end. And indeed he does notwant my help; you do not know him as I do; he is safe, he is quitesafe; mark my words, he will never more be heard of.”The lawyer listened gloomily; he did not like his friend’s feverishmanner. “You seem pretty sure of him,” said he; “and for your sake, Ihope you may be right. If it came to a trial, your name might appear.”“I am quite sure of him,” replied Jekyll; “I have grounds for certaintythat I cannot share with any one. But there is one thing on which youmay advise me. I have—I have received a letter; and I am at a losswhether I should show it to the police. I should like to leave it inyour hands, Utterson; you would judge wisely, I am sure; I have sogreat a trust in you.”“You fear, I suppose, that it might lead to his detection?” asked thelawyer.“No,” said the other. “I cannot say that I care what becomes of Hyde; Iam quite done with him. I was thinking of my own character, which thishateful business has rather exposed.”Utterson ruminated awhile; he was surprised at his friend’sselfishness, and yet relieved by it. “Well,” said he, at last, “let mesee the letter.”The letter was written in an odd, upright hand and signed “EdwardHyde”: and it signified, briefly enough, that the writer’s benefactor,Dr. Jekyll, whom he had long so unworthily repaid for a thousandgenerosities, need labour under no alarm for his safety, as he hadmeans of escape on which he placed a sure dependence. The lawyer likedthis letter well enough; it put a better colour on the intimacy than hehad looked for; and he blamed himself for some of his past suspicions.“Have you the envelope?” he asked.“I burned it,” replied Jekyll, “before I thought what I was about. Butit bore no postmark. The note was handed in.”“Shall I keep this and sleep upon it?” asked Utterson.“I wish you to judge for me entirely,” was the reply. “I have lostconfidence in myself.”“Well, I shall consider,” returned the lawyer. “And now one word more:it was Hyde who dictated the terms in your will about thatdisappearance?”The doctor seemed seized with a qualm of faintness; he shut his mouthtight and nodded.“I knew it,” said Utterson. “He meant to murder you. You had a fineescape.”“I have had what is far more to the purpose,” returned the doctorsolemnly: “I have had a lesson—O God, Utterson, what a lesson I havehad!” And he covered his face for a moment with his hands.On his way out, the lawyer stopped and had a word or two with Poole.“By the bye,” said he, “there was a letter handed in to-day: what wasthe messenger like?” But Poole was positive nothing had come except bypost; “and only circulars by that,” he added.This news sent off the visitor with his fears renewed. Plainly theletter had come by the laboratory door; possibly, indeed, it had beenwritten in the cabinet; and if that were so, it must be differentlyjudged, and handled with the more caution. The newsboys, as he went,were crying themselves hoarse along the footways: “Special edition.Shocking murder of an M.P.” That was the funeral oration of one friendand client; and he could not help a certain apprehension lest the goodname of another should be sucked down in the eddy of the scandal. Itwas, at least, a ticklish decision that he had to make; andself-reliant as he was by habit, he began to cherish a longing foradvice. It was not to be had directly; but perhaps, he thought, itmight be fished for.Presently after, he sat on one side of his own hearth, with Mr. Guest,his head clerk, upon the other, and midway between, at a nicelycalculated distance from the fire, a bottle of a particular old winethat had long dwelt unsunned in the foundations of his house. The fogstill slept on the wing above the drowned city, where the lampsglimmered like carbuncles; and through the muffle and smother of thesefallen clouds, the procession of the town’s life was still rolling inthrough the great arteries with a sound as of a mighty wind. But theroom was gay with firelight. In the bottle the acids were long agoresolved; the imperial dye had softened with time, as the colour growsricher in stained windows; and the glow of hot autumn afternoons onhillside vineyards, was ready to be set free and to disperse the fogsof London. Insensibly the lawyer melted. There was no man from whom hekept fewer secrets than Mr. Guest; and he was not always sure that hekept as many as he meant. Guest had often been on business to thedoctor’s; he knew Poole; he could scarce have failed to hear of Mr.Hyde’s familiarity about the house; he might draw conclusions: was itnot as well, then, that he should see a letter which put that mysteryto right? and above all since Guest, being a great student and criticof handwriting, would consider the step natural and obliging? Theclerk, besides, was a man of counsel; he could scarce read so strange adocument without dropping a remark; and by that remark Mr. Uttersonmight shape his future course.“This is a sad business about Sir Danvers,” he said.“Yes, sir, indeed. It has elicited a great deal of public feeling,”returned Guest. “The man, of course, was mad.”“I should like to hear your views on that,” replied Utterson. “I have adocument here in his handwriting; it is between ourselves, for I scarceknow what to do about it; it is an ugly business at the best. But thereit is; quite in your way: a murderer’s autograph.”Guest’s eyes brightened, and he sat down at once and studied it withpassion. “No sir,” he said: “not mad; but it is an odd hand.”“And by all accounts a very odd writer,” added the lawyer.Just then the servant entered with a note.“Is that from Dr. Jekyll, sir?” inquired the clerk. “I thought I knewthe writing. Anything private, Mr. Utterson?”“Only an invitation to dinner. Why? Do you want to see it?”“One moment. I thank you, sir;” and the clerk laid the two sheets ofpaper alongside and sedulously compared their contents. “Thank you,sir,” he said at last, returning both; “it’s a very interestingautograph.”There was a pause, during which Mr. Utterson struggled with himself.“Why did you compare them, Guest?” he inquired suddenly.“Well, sir,” returned the clerk, “there’s a rather singularresemblance; the two hands are in many points identical: onlydifferently sloped.”“Rather quaint,” said Utterson.“It is, as you say, rather quaint,” returned Guest.“I wouldn’t speak of this note, you know,” said the master.“No, sir,” said the clerk. “I understand.”But no sooner was Mr. Utterson alone that night, than he locked thenote into his safe, where it reposed from that time forward. “What!” hethought. “Henry Jekyll forge for a murderer!” And his blood ran cold inhis veins.INCIDENT OF DR. LANYONTime ran on; thousands of pounds were offered in reward, for the deathof Sir Danvers was resented as a public injury; but Mr. Hyde haddisappeared out of the ken of the police as though he had neverexisted. Much of his past was unearthed, indeed, and all disreputable:tales came out of the man’s cruelty, at once so callous and violent; ofhis vile life, of his strange associates, of the hatred that seemed tohave surrounded his career; but of his present whereabouts, not awhisper. From the time he had left the house in Soho on the morning ofthe murder, he was simply blotted out; and gradually, as time drew on,Mr. Utterson began to recover from the hotness of his alarm, and togrow more at quiet with himself. The death of Sir Danvers was, to hisway of thinking, more than paid for by the disappearance of Mr. Hyde.Now that that evil influence had been withdrawn, a new life began forDr. Jekyll. He came out of his seclusion, renewed relations with hisfriends, became once more their familiar guest and entertainer; andwhilst he had always been known for charities, he was now no lessdistinguished for religion. He was busy, he was much in the open air,he did good; his face seemed to open and brighten, as if with an inwardconsciousness of service; and for more than two months, the doctor wasat peace.On the 8th of January Utterson had dined at the doctor’s with a smallparty; Lanyon had been there; and the face of the host had looked fromone to the other as in the old days when the trio were inseparablefriends. On the 12th, and again on the 14th, the door was shut againstthe lawyer. “The doctor was confined to the house,” Poole said, “andsaw no one.” On the 15th, he tried again, and was again refused; andhaving now been used for the last two months to see his friend almostdaily, he found this return of solitude to weigh upon his spirits. Thefifth night he had in Guest to dine with him; and the sixth he betookhimself to Dr. Lanyon’s.There at least he was not denied admittance; but when he came in, hewas shocked at the change which had taken place in the doctor’sappearance. He had his death-warrant written legibly upon his face. Therosy man had grown pale; his flesh had fallen away; he was visiblybalder and older; and yet it was not so much these tokens of a swiftphysical decay that arrested the lawyer’s notice, as a look in the eyeand quality of manner that seemed to testify to some deep-seated terrorof the mind. It was unlikely that the doctor should fear death; and yetthat was what Utterson was tempted to suspect. “Yes,” he thought; “heis a doctor, he must know his own state and that his days are counted;and the knowledge is more than he can bear.” And yet when Uttersonremarked on his ill looks, it was with an air of great firmness thatLanyon declared himself a doomed man.“I have had a shock,” he said, “and I shall never recover. It is aquestion of weeks. Well, life has been pleasant; I liked it; yes, sir,I used to like it. I sometimes think if we knew all, we should be moreglad to get away.”“Jekyll is ill, too,” observed Utterson. “Have you seen him?”But Lanyon’s face changed, and he held up a trembling hand. “I wish tosee or hear no more of Dr. Jekyll,” he said in a loud, unsteady voice.“I am quite done with that person; and I beg that you will spare me anyallusion to one whom I regard as dead.”“Tut, tut!” said Mr. Utterson; and then after a considerable pause,“Can’t I do anything?” he inquired. “We are three very old friends,Lanyon; we shall not live to make others.”“Nothing can be done,” returned Lanyon; “ask himself.”“He will not see me,” said the lawyer.“I am not surprised at that,” was the reply. “Some day, Utterson, afterI am dead, you may perhaps come to learn the right and wrong of this. Icannot tell you. And in the meantime, if you can sit and talk with meof other things, for God’s sake, stay and do so; but if you cannot keepclear of this accursed topic, then in God’s name, go, for I cannot bearit.”As soon as he got home, Utterson sat down and wrote to Jekyll,complaining of his exclusion from the house, and asking the cause ofthis unhappy break with Lanyon; and the next day brought him a longanswer, often very pathetically worded, and sometimes darkly mysteriousin drift. The quarrel with Lanyon was incurable. “I do not blame ourold friend,” Jekyll wrote, “but I share his view that we must nevermeet. I mean from henceforth to lead a life of extreme seclusion; youmust not be surprised, nor must you doubt my friendship, if my door isoften shut even to you. You must suffer me to go my own dark way. Ihave brought on myself a punishment and a danger that I cannot name. IfI am the chief of sinners, I am the chief of sufferers also. I couldnot think that this earth contained a place for sufferings and terrorsso unmanning; and you can do but one thing, Utterson, to lighten thisdestiny, and that is to respect my silence.” Utterson was amazed; thedark influence of Hyde had been withdrawn, the doctor had returned tohis old tasks and amities; a week ago, the prospect had smiled withevery promise of a cheerful and an honoured age; and now in a moment,friendship, and peace of mind, and the whole tenor of his life werewrecked. So great and unprepared a change pointed to madness; but inview of Lanyon’s manner and words, there must lie for it some deeperground.A week afterwards Dr. Lanyon took to his bed, and in something lessthan a fortnight he was dead. The night after the funeral, at which hehad been sadly affected, Utterson locked the door of his business room,and sitting there by the light of a melancholy candle, drew out and setbefore him an envelope addressed by the hand and sealed with the sealof his dead friend. “PRIVATE: for the hands of G. J. Utterson ALONE,and in case of his predecease _to be destroyed unread_,” so it wasemphatically superscribed; and the lawyer dreaded to behold thecontents. “I have buried one friend to-day,” he thought: “what if thisshould cost me another?” And then he condemned the fear as adisloyalty, and broke the seal. Within there was another enclosure,likewise sealed, and marked upon the cover as “not to be opened tillthe death or disappearance of Dr. Henry Jekyll.” Utterson could nottrust his eyes. Yes, it was disappearance; here again, as in the madwill which he had long ago restored to its author, here again were theidea of a disappearance and the name of Henry Jekyll bracketted. But inthe will, that idea had sprung from the sinister suggestion of the manHyde; it was set there with a purpose all too plain and horrible.Written by the hand of Lanyon, what should it mean? A great curiositycame on the trustee, to disregard the prohibition and dive at once tothe bottom of these mysteries; but professional honour and faith to hisdead friend were stringent obligations; and the packet slept in theinmost corner of his private safe.It is one thing to mortify curiosity, another to conquer it; and it maybe doubted if, from that day forth, Utterson desired the society of hissurviving friend with the same eagerness. He thought of him kindly; buthis thoughts were disquieted and fearful. He went to call indeed; buthe was perhaps relieved to be denied admittance; perhaps, in his heart,he preferred to speak with Poole upon the doorstep and surrounded bythe air and sounds of the open city, rather than to be admitted intothat house of voluntary bondage, and to sit and speak with itsinscrutable recluse. Poole had, indeed, no very pleasant news tocommunicate. The doctor, it appeared, now more than ever confinedhimself to the cabinet over the laboratory, where he would sometimeseven sleep; he was out of spirits, he had grown very silent, he did notread; it seemed as if he had something on his mind. Utterson became soused to the unvarying character of these reports, that he fell offlittle by little in the frequency of his visits.INCIDENT AT THE WINDOWIt chanced on Sunday, when Mr. Utterson was on his usual walk with Mr.Enfield, that their way lay once again through the by-street; and thatwhen they came in front of the door, both stopped to gaze on it.“Well,” said Enfield, “that story’s at an end at least. We shall neversee more of Mr. Hyde.”“I hope not,” said Utterson. “Did I ever tell you that I once saw him,and shared your feeling of repulsion?”“It was impossible to do the one without the other,” returned Enfield.“And by the way, what an ass you must have thought me, not to know thatthis was a back way to Dr. Jekyll’s! It was partly your own fault thatI found it out, even when I did.”“So you found it out, did you?” said Utterson. “But if that be so, wemay step into the court and take a look at the windows. To tell you thetruth, I am uneasy about poor Jekyll; and even outside, I feel as ifthe presence of a friend might do him good.”The court was very cool and a little damp, and full of prematuretwilight, although the sky, high up overhead, was still bright withsunset. The middle one of the three windows was half-way open; andsitting close beside it, taking the air with an infinite sadness ofmien, like some disconsolate prisoner, Utterson saw Dr. Jekyll.“What! Jekyll!” he cried. “I trust you are better.”“I am very low, Utterson,” replied the doctor drearily, “very low. Itwill not last long, thank God.”“You stay too much indoors,” said the lawyer. “You should be out,whipping up the circulation like Mr. Enfield and me. (This is mycousin—Mr. Enfield—Dr. Jekyll.) Come now; get your hat and take a quickturn with us.”“You are very good,” sighed the other. “I should like to very much; butno, no, no, it is quite impossible; I dare not. But indeed, Utterson, Iam very glad to see you; this is really a great pleasure; I would askyou and Mr. Enfield up, but the place is really not fit.”“Why, then,” said the lawyer, good-naturedly, “the best thing we can dois to stay down here and speak with you from where we are.”“That is just what I was about to venture to propose,” returned thedoctor with a smile. But the words were hardly uttered, before thesmile was struck out of his face and succeeded by an expression of suchabject terror and despair, as froze the very blood of the two gentlemenbelow. They saw it but for a glimpse for the window was instantlythrust down; but that glimpse had been sufficient, and they turned andleft the court without a word. In silence, too, they traversed theby-street; and it was not until they had come into a neighbouringthoroughfare, where even upon a Sunday there were still some stirringsof life, that Mr. Utterson at last turned and looked at his companion.They were both pale; and there was an answering horror in their eyes.“God forgive us, God forgive us,” said Mr. Utterson.But Mr. Enfield only nodded his head very seriously, and walked on oncemore in silence.THE LAST NIGHTMr. Utterson was sitting by his fireside one evening after dinner, whenhe was surprised to receive a visit from Poole.“Bless me, Poole, what brings you here?” he cried; and then taking asecond look at him, “What ails you?” he added; “is the doctor ill?”“Mr. Utterson,” said the man, “there is something wrong.”“Take a seat, and here is a glass of wine for you,” said the lawyer.“Now, take your time, and tell me plainly what you want.”“You know the doctor’s ways, sir,” replied Poole, “and how he shutshimself up. Well, he’s shut up again in the cabinet; and I don’t likeit, sir—I wish I may die if I like it. Mr. Utterson, sir, I’m afraid.”“Now, my good man,” said the lawyer, “be explicit. What are you afraidof?”“I’ve been afraid for about a week,” returned Poole, doggedlydisregarding the question, “and I can bear it no more.”The man’s appearance amply bore out his words; his manner was alteredfor the worse; and except for the moment when he had first announcedhis terror, he had not once looked the lawyer in the face. Even now, hesat with the glass of wine untasted on his knee, and his eyes directedto a corner of the floor. “I can bear it no more,” he repeated.“Come,” said the lawyer, “I see you have some good reason, Poole; I seethere is something seriously amiss. Try to tell me what it is.”“I think there’s been foul play,” said Poole, hoarsely.“Foul play!” cried the lawyer, a good deal frightened and ratherinclined to be irritated in consequence. “What foul play! What does theman mean?”“I daren’t say, sir,” was the answer; “but will you come along with meand see for yourself?”Mr. Utterson’s only answer was to rise and get his hat and greatcoat;but he observed with wonder the greatness of the relief that appearedupon the butler’s face, and perhaps with no less, that the wine wasstill untasted when he set it down to follow.It was a wild, cold, seasonable night of March, with a pale moon, lyingon her back as though the wind had tilted her, and flying wrack of themost diaphanous and lawny texture. The wind made talking difficult, andflecked the blood into the face. It seemed to have swept the streetsunusually bare of passengers, besides; for Mr. Utterson thought he hadnever seen that part of London so deserted. He could have wished itotherwise; never in his life had he been conscious of so sharp a wishto see and touch his fellow-creatures; for struggle as he might, therewas borne in upon his mind a crushing anticipation of calamity. Thesquare, when they got there, was full of wind and dust, and the thintrees in the garden were lashing themselves along the railing. Poole,who had kept all the way a pace or two ahead, now pulled up in themiddle of the pavement, and in spite of the biting weather, took offhis hat and mopped his brow with a red pocket-handkerchief. But for allthe hurry of his coming, these were not the dews of exertion that hewiped away, but the moisture of some strangling anguish; for his facewas white and his voice, when he spoke, harsh and broken.“Well, sir,” he said, “here we are, and God grant there be nothingwrong.”“Amen, Poole,” said the lawyer.Thereupon the servant knocked in a very guarded manner; the door wasopened on the chain; and a voice asked from within, “Is that you,Poole?”“It’s all right,” said Poole. “Open the door.”The hall, when they entered it, was brightly lighted up; the fire wasbuilt high; and about the hearth the whole of the servants, men andwomen, stood huddled together like a flock of sheep. At the sight ofMr. Utterson, the housemaid broke into hysterical whimpering; and thecook, crying out “Bless God! it’s Mr. Utterson,” ran forward as if totake him in her arms.“What, what? Are you all here?” said the lawyer peevishly. “Veryirregular, very unseemly; your master would be far from pleased.”“They’re all afraid,” said Poole.Blank silence followed, no one protesting; only the maid lifted hervoice and now wept loudly.“Hold your tongue!” Poole said to her, with a ferocity of accent thattestified to his own jangled nerves; and indeed, when the girl had sosuddenly raised the note of her lamentation, they had all started andturned towards the inner door with faces of dreadful expectation. “Andnow,” continued the butler, addressing the knife-boy, “reach me acandle, and we’ll get this through hands at once.” And then he beggedMr. Utterson to follow him, and led the way to the back garden.“Now, sir,” said he, “you come as gently as you can. I want you tohear, and I don’t want you to be heard. And see here, sir, if by anychance he was to ask you in, don’t go.”Mr. Utterson’s nerves, at this unlooked-for termination, gave a jerkthat nearly threw him from his balance; but he recollected his courageand followed the butler into the laboratory building through thesurgical theatre, with its lumber of crates and bottles, to the foot ofthe stair. Here Poole motioned him to stand on one side and listen;while he himself, setting down the candle and making a great andobvious call on his resolution, mounted the steps and knocked with asomewhat uncertain hand on the red baize of the cabinet door.“Mr. Utterson, sir, asking to see you,” he called; and even as he didso, once more violently signed to the lawyer to give ear.A voice answered from within: “Tell him I cannot see anyone,” it saidcomplainingly.“Thank you, sir,” said Poole, with a note of something like triumph inhis voice; and taking up his candle, he led Mr. Utterson back acrossthe yard and into the great kitchen, where the fire was out and thebeetles were leaping on the floor.“Sir,” he said, looking Mr. Utterson in the eyes, “Was that my master’svoice?”“It seems much changed,” replied the lawyer, very pale, but giving lookfor look.“Changed? Well, yes, I think so,” said the butler. “Have I been twentyyears in this man’s house, to be deceived about his voice? No, sir;master’s made away with; he was made away with eight days ago, when weheard him cry out upon the name of God; and _who’s_ in there instead ofhim, and _why_ it stays there, is a thing that cries to Heaven, Mr.Utterson!”“This is a very strange tale, Poole; this is rather a wild tale myman,” said Mr. Utterson, biting his finger. “Suppose it were as yousuppose, supposing Dr. Jekyll to have been—well, murdered, what couldinduce the murderer to stay? That won’t hold water; it doesn’t commenditself to reason.”“Well, Mr. Utterson, you are a hard man to satisfy, but I’ll do ityet,” said Poole. “All this last week (you must know) him, or it,whatever it is that lives in that cabinet, has been crying night andday for some sort of medicine and cannot get it to his mind. It wassometimes his way—the master’s, that is—to write his orders on a sheetof paper and throw it on the stair. We’ve had nothing else this weekback; nothing but papers, and a closed door, and the very meals leftthere to be smuggled in when nobody was looking. Well, sir, every day,ay, and twice and thrice in the same day, there have been orders andcomplaints, and I have been sent flying to all the wholesale chemistsin town. Every time I brought the stuff back, there would be anotherpaper telling me to return it, because it was not pure, and anotherorder to a different firm. This drug is wanted bitter bad, sir,whatever for.”“Have you any of these papers?” asked Mr. Utterson.Poole felt in his pocket and handed out a crumpled note, which thelawyer, bending nearer to the candle, carefully examined. Its contentsran thus: “Dr. Jekyll presents his compliments to Messrs. Maw. Heassures them that their last sample is impure and quite useless for hispresent purpose. In the year 18—, Dr. J. purchased a somewhat largequantity from Messrs. M. He now begs them to search with most sedulouscare, and should any of the same quality be left, forward it to him atonce. Expense is no consideration. The importance of this to Dr. J. canhardly be exaggerated.” So far the letter had run composedly enough,but here with a sudden splutter of the pen, the writer’s emotion hadbroken loose. “For God’s sake,” he added, “find me some of the old.”“This is a strange note,” said Mr. Utterson; and then sharply, “How doyou come to have it open?”“The man at Maw’s was main angry, sir, and he threw it back to me likeso much dirt,” returned Poole.“This is unquestionably the doctor’s hand, do you know?” resumed thelawyer.“I thought it looked like it,” said the servant rather sulkily; andthen, with another voice, “But what matters hand of write?” he said.“I’ve seen him!”“Seen him?” repeated Mr. Utterson. “Well?”“That’s it!” said Poole. “It was this way. I came suddenly into thetheatre from the garden. It seems he had slipped out to look for thisdrug or whatever it is; for the cabinet door was open, and there he wasat the far end of the room digging among the crates. He looked up whenI came in, gave a kind of cry, and whipped upstairs into the cabinet.It was but for one minute that I saw him, but the hair stood upon myhead like quills. Sir, if that was my master, why had he a mask uponhis face? If it was my master, why did he cry out like a rat, and runfrom me? I have served him long enough. And then...” The man paused andpassed his hand over his face.“These are all very strange circumstances,” said Mr. Utterson, “but Ithink I begin to see daylight. Your master, Poole, is plainly seizedwith one of those maladies that both torture and deform the sufferer;hence, for aught I know, the alteration of his voice; hence the maskand the avoidance of his friends; hence his eagerness to find thisdrug, by means of which the poor soul retains some hope of ultimaterecovery—God grant that he be not deceived! There is my explanation; itis sad enough, Poole, ay, and appalling to consider; but it is plainand natural, hangs well together, and delivers us from all exorbitantalarms.”“Sir,” said the butler, turning to a sort of mottled pallor, “thatthing was not my master, and there’s the truth. My master”—here helooked round him and began to whisper—“is a tall, fine build of a man,and this was more of a dwarf.” Utterson attempted to protest. “O, sir,”cried Poole, “do you think I do not know my master after twenty years?Do you think I do not know where his head comes to in the cabinet door,where I saw him every morning of my life? No, sir, that thing in themask was never Dr. Jekyll—God knows what it was, but it was never Dr.Jekyll; and it is the belief of my heart that there was murder done.”“Poole,” replied the lawyer, “if you say that, it will become my dutyto make certain. Much as I desire to spare your master’s feelings, muchas I am puzzled by this note which seems to prove him to be stillalive, I shall consider it my duty to break in that door.”“Ah, Mr. Utterson, that’s talking!” cried the butler.“And now comes the second question,” resumed Utterson: “Who is going todo it?”“Why, you and me, sir,” was the undaunted reply.“That’s very well said,” returned the lawyer; “and whatever comes ofit, I shall make it my business to see you are no loser.”“There is an axe in the theatre,” continued Poole; “and you might takethe kitchen poker for yourself.”The lawyer took that rude but weighty instrument into his hand, andbalanced it. “Do you know, Poole,” he said, looking up, “that you and Iare about to place ourselves in a position of some peril?”“You may say so, sir, indeed,” returned the butler.“It is well, then that we should be frank,” said the other. “We boththink more than we have said; let us make a clean breast. This maskedfigure that you saw, did you recognise it?”“Well, sir, it went so quick, and the creature was so doubled up, thatI could hardly swear to that,” was the answer. “But if you mean, was itMr. Hyde?—why, yes, I think it was! You see, it was much of the samebigness; and it had the same quick, light way with it; and then whoelse could have got in by the laboratory door? You have not forgot,sir, that at the time of the murder he had still the key with him? Butthat’s not all. I don’t know, Mr. Utterson, if you ever met this Mr.Hyde?”“Yes,” said the lawyer, “I once spoke with him.”“Then you must know as well as the rest of us that there was somethingqueer about that gentleman—something that gave a man a turn—I don’tknow rightly how to say it, sir, beyond this: that you felt in yourmarrow kind of cold and thin.”“I own I felt something of what you describe,” said Mr. Utterson.“Quite so, sir,” returned Poole. “Well, when that masked thing like amonkey jumped from among the chemicals and whipped into the cabinet, itwent down my spine like ice. O, I know it’s not evidence, Mr. Utterson;I’m book-learned enough for that; but a man has his feelings, and Igive you my bible-word it was Mr. Hyde!”“Ay, ay,” said the lawyer. “My fears incline to the same point. Evil, Ifear, founded—evil was sure to come—of that connection. Ay truly, Ibelieve you; I believe poor Harry is killed; and I believe his murderer(for what purpose, God alone can tell) is still lurking in his victim’sroom. Well, let our name be vengeance. Call Bradshaw.”The footman came at the summons, very white and nervous.“Pull yourself together, Bradshaw,” said the lawyer. “This suspense, Iknow, is telling upon all of you; but it is now our intention to makean end of it. Poole, here, and I are going to force our way into thecabinet. If all is well, my shoulders are broad enough to bear theblame. Meanwhile, lest anything should really be amiss, or anymalefactor seek to escape by the back, you and the boy must go roundthe corner with a pair of good sticks and take your post at thelaboratory door. We give you ten minutes to get to your stations.”As Bradshaw left, the lawyer looked at his watch. “And now, Poole, letus get to ours,” he said; and taking the poker under his arm, led theway into the yard. The scud had banked over the moon, and it was nowquite dark. The wind, which only broke in puffs and draughts into thatdeep well of building, tossed the light of the candle to and fro abouttheir steps, until they came into the shelter of the theatre, wherethey sat down silently to wait. London hummed solemnly all around; butnearer at hand, the stillness was only broken by the sounds of afootfall moving to and fro along the cabinet floor.“So it will walk all day, sir,” whispered Poole; “ay, and the betterpart of the night. Only when a new sample comes from the chemist,there’s a bit of a break. Ah, it’s an ill conscience that’s such anenemy to rest! Ah, sir, there’s blood foully shed in every step of it!But hark again, a little closer—put your heart in your ears, Mr.Utterson, and tell me, is that the doctor’s foot?”The steps fell lightly and oddly, with a certain swing, for all theywent so slowly; it was different indeed from the heavy creaking treadof Henry Jekyll. Utterson sighed. “Is there never anything else?” heasked.Poole nodded. “Once,” he said. “Once I heard it weeping!”“Weeping? how that?” said the lawyer, conscious of a sudden chill ofhorror.“Weeping like a woman or a lost soul,” said the butler. “I came awaywith that upon my heart, that I could have wept too.”But now the ten minutes drew to an end. Poole disinterred the axe fromunder a stack of packing straw; the candle was set upon the nearesttable to light them to the attack; and they drew near with bated breathto where that patient foot was still going up and down, up and down, inthe quiet of the night.“Jekyll,” cried Utterson, with a loud voice, “I demand to see you.” Hepaused a moment, but there came no reply. “I give you fair warning, oursuspicions are aroused, and I must and shall see you,” he resumed; “ifnot by fair means, then by foul—if not of your consent, then by bruteforce!”“Utterson,” said the voice, “for God’s sake, have mercy!”“Ah, that’s not Jekyll’s voice—it’s Hyde’s!” cried Utterson. “Down withthe door, Poole!”Poole swung the axe over his shoulder; the blow shook the building, andthe red baize door leaped against the lock and hinges. A dismalscreech, as of mere animal terror, rang from the cabinet. Up went theaxe again, and again the panels crashed and the frame bounded; fourtimes the blow fell; but the wood was tough and the fittings were ofexcellent workmanship; and it was not until the fifth, that the lockburst and the wreck of the door fell inwards on the carpet.The besiegers, appalled by their own riot and the stillness that hadsucceeded, stood back a little and peered in. There lay the cabinetbefore their eyes in the quiet lamplight, a good fire glowing andchattering on the hearth, the kettle singing its thin strain, a draweror two open, papers neatly set forth on the business table, and nearerthe fire, the things laid out for tea; the quietest room, you wouldhave said, and, but for the glazed presses full of chemicals, the mostcommonplace that night in London.Right in the middle there lay the body of a man sorely contorted andstill twitching. They drew near on tiptoe, turned it on its back andbeheld the face of Edward Hyde. He was dressed in clothes far too largefor him, clothes of the doctor’s bigness; the cords of his face stillmoved with a semblance of life, but life was quite gone; and by thecrushed phial in the hand and the strong smell of kernels that hungupon the air, Utterson knew that he was looking on the body of aself-destroyer.“We have come too late,” he said sternly, “whether to save or punish.Hyde is gone to his account; and it only remains for us to find thebody of your master.”The far greater proportion of the building was occupied by the theatre,which filled almost the whole ground storey and was lighted from above,and by the cabinet, which formed an upper storey at one end and lookedupon the court. A corridor joined the theatre to the door on theby-street; and with this the cabinet communicated separately by asecond flight of stairs. There were besides a few dark closets and aspacious cellar. All these they now thoroughly examined. Each closetneeded but a glance, for all were empty, and all, by the dust that fellfrom their doors, had stood long unopened. The cellar, indeed, wasfilled with crazy lumber, mostly dating from the times of the surgeonwho was Jekyll’s predecessor; but even as they opened the door theywere advertised of the uselessness of further search, by the fall of aperfect mat of cobweb which had for years sealed up the entrance.Nowhere was there any trace of Henry Jekyll, dead or alive.Poole stamped on the flags of the corridor. “He must be buried here,”he said, hearkening to the sound.“Or he may have fled,” said Utterson, and he turned to examine the doorin the by-street. It was locked; and lying near by on the flags, theyfound the key, already stained with rust.“This does not look like use,” observed the lawyer.“Use!” echoed Poole. “Do you not see, sir, it is broken? much as if aman had stamped on it.”“Ay,” continued Utterson, “and the fractures, too, are rusty.” The twomen looked at each other with a scare. “This is beyond me, Poole,” saidthe lawyer. “Let us go back to the cabinet.”They mounted the stair in silence, and still with an occasionalawestruck glance at the dead body, proceeded more thoroughly to examinethe contents of the cabinet. At one table, there were traces ofchemical work, various measured heaps of some white salt being laid onglass saucers, as though for an experiment in which the unhappy man hadbeen prevented.“That is the same drug that I was always bringing him,” said Poole; andeven as he spoke, the kettle with a startling noise boiled over.This brought them to the fireside, where the easy-chair was drawncosily up, and the tea things stood ready to the sitter’s elbow, thevery sugar in the cup. There were several books on a shelf; one laybeside the tea things open, and Utterson was amazed to find it a copyof a pious work, for which Jekyll had several times expressed a greatesteem, annotated, in his own hand with startling blasphemies.Next, in the course of their review of the chamber, the searchers cameto the cheval-glass, into whose depths they looked with an involuntaryhorror. But it was so turned as to show them nothing but the rosy glowplaying on the roof, the fire sparkling in a hundred repetitions alongthe glazed front of the presses, and their own pale and fearfulcountenances stooping to look in.“This glass has seen some strange things, sir,” whispered Poole.“And surely none stranger than itself,” echoed the lawyer in the sametones. “For what did Jekyll”—he caught himself up at the word with astart, and then conquering the weakness—“what could Jekyll want withit?” he said.“You may say that!” said Poole.Next they turned to the business table. On the desk, among the neatarray of papers, a large envelope was uppermost, and bore, in thedoctor’s hand, the name of Mr. Utterson. The lawyer unsealed it, andseveral enclosures fell to the floor. The first was a will, drawn inthe same eccentric terms as the one which he had returned six monthsbefore, to serve as a testament in case of death and as a deed of giftin case of disappearance; but in place of the name of Edward Hyde, thelawyer, with indescribable amazement read the name of Gabriel JohnUtterson. He looked at Poole, and then back at the paper, and last ofall at the dead malefactor stretched upon the carpet.“My head goes round,” he said. “He has been all these days inpossession; he had no cause to like me; he must have raged to seehimself displaced; and he has not destroyed this document.”He caught up the next paper; it was a brief note in the doctor’s handand dated at the top. “O Poole!” the lawyer cried, “he was alive andhere this day. He cannot have been disposed of in so short a space; hemust be still alive, he must have fled! And then, why fled? and how?and in that case, can we venture to declare this suicide? O, we must becareful. I foresee that we may yet involve your master in some direcatastrophe.”“Why don’t you read it, sir?” asked Poole.“Because I fear,” replied the lawyer solemnly. “God grant I have nocause for it!” And with that he brought the paper to his eyes and readas follows:“My dear Utterson,—When this shall fall into your hands, I shall havedisappeared, under what circumstances I have not the penetration toforesee, but my instinct and all the circumstances of my namelesssituation tell me that the end is sure and must be early. Go then, andfirst read the narrative which Lanyon warned me he was to place in yourhands; and if you care to hear more, turn to the confession of“Your unworthy and unhappy friend,“HENRY JEKYLL.”“There was a third enclosure?” asked Utterson.“Here, sir,” said Poole, and gave into his hands a considerable packetsealed in several places.The lawyer put it in his pocket. “I would say nothing of this paper. Ifyour master has fled or is dead, we may at least save his credit. It isnow ten; I must go home and read these documents in quiet; but I shallbe back before midnight, when we shall send for the police.”They went out, locking the door of the theatre behind them; andUtterson, once more leaving the servants gathered about the fire in thehall, trudged back to his office to read the two narratives in whichthis mystery was now to be explained.DR. LANYON’S NARRATIVEOn the ninth of January, now four days ago, I received by the eveningdelivery a registered envelope, addressed in the hand of my colleagueand old school companion, Henry Jekyll. I was a good deal surprised bythis; for we were by no means in the habit of correspondence; I hadseen the man, dined with him, indeed, the night before; and I couldimagine nothing in our intercourse that should justify formality ofregistration. The contents increased my wonder; for this is how theletter ran:“10_th December_, 18—.“Dear Lanyon,—You are one of my oldest friends; and although we mayhave differed at times on scientific questions, I cannot remember, atleast on my side, any break in our affection. There was never a daywhen, if you had said to me, ‘Jekyll, my life, my honour, my reason,depend upon you,’ I would not have sacrificed my left hand to help you.Lanyon, my life, my honour, my reason, are all at your mercy; if youfail me to-night, I am lost. You might suppose, after this preface,that I am going to ask you for something dishonourable to grant. Judgefor yourself.“I want you to postpone all other engagements for to-night—ay, even ifyou were summoned to the bedside of an emperor; to take a cab, unlessyour carriage should be actually at the door; and with this letter inyour hand for consultation, to drive straight to my house. Poole, mybutler, has his orders; you will find him waiting your arrival with alocksmith. The door of my cabinet is then to be forced; and you are togo in alone; to open the glazed press (letter E) on the left hand,breaking the lock if it be shut; and to draw out, _with all itscontents as they stand_, the fourth drawer from the top or (which isthe same thing) the third from the bottom. In my extreme distress ofmind, I have a morbid fear of misdirecting you; but even if I am inerror, you may know the right drawer by its contents: some powders, aphial and a paper book. This drawer I beg of you to carry back with youto Cavendish Square exactly as it stands.“That is the first part of the service: now for the second. You shouldbe back, if you set out at once on the receipt of this, long beforemidnight; but I will leave you that amount of margin, not only in thefear of one of those obstacles that can neither be prevented norforeseen, but because an hour when your servants are in bed is to bepreferred for what will then remain to do. At midnight, then, I have toask you to be alone in your consulting room, to admit with your ownhand into the house a man who will present himself in my name, and toplace in his hands the drawer that you will have brought with you frommy cabinet. Then you will have played your part and earned my gratitudecompletely. Five minutes afterwards, if you insist upon an explanation,you will have understood that these arrangements are of capitalimportance; and that by the neglect of one of them, fantastic as theymust appear, you might have charged your conscience with my death orthe shipwreck of my reason.“Confident as I am that you will not trifle with this appeal, my heartsinks and my hand trembles at the bare thought of such a possibility.Think of me at this hour, in a strange place, labouring under ablackness of distress that no fancy can exaggerate, and yet well awarethat, if you will but punctually serve me, my troubles will roll awaylike a story that is told. Serve me, my dear Lanyon and save“Your friend,“H.J.“P.S.—I had already sealed this up when a fresh terror struck upon mysoul. It is possible that the post-office may fail me, and this letternot come into your hands until to-morrow morning. In that case, dearLanyon, do my errand when it shall be most convenient for you in thecourse of the day; and once more expect my messenger at midnight. Itmay then already be too late; and if that night passes without event,you will know that you have seen the last of Henry Jekyll.”Upon the reading of this letter, I made sure my colleague was insane;but till that was proved beyond the possibility of doubt, I felt boundto do as he requested. The less I understood of this farrago, the lessI was in a position to judge of its importance; and an appeal so wordedcould not be set aside without a grave responsibility. I roseaccordingly from table, got into a hansom, and drove straight toJekyll’s house. The butler was awaiting my arrival; he had received bythe same post as mine a registered letter of instruction, and had sentat once for a locksmith and a carpenter. The tradesmen came while wewere yet speaking; and we moved in a body to old Dr. Denman’s surgicaltheatre, from which (as you are doubtless aware) Jekyll’s privatecabinet is most conveniently entered. The door was very strong, thelock excellent; the carpenter avowed he would have great trouble andhave to do much damage, if force were to be used; and the locksmith wasnear despair. But this last was a handy fellow, and after two hour’swork, the door stood open. The press marked E was unlocked; and I tookout the drawer, had it filled up with straw and tied in a sheet, andreturned with it to Cavendish Square.Here I proceeded to examine its contents. The powders were neatlyenough made up, but not with the nicety of the dispensing chemist; sothat it was plain they were of Jekyll’s private manufacture; and when Iopened one of the wrappers I found what seemed to me a simplecrystalline salt of a white colour. The phial, to which I next turnedmy attention, might have been about half full of a blood-red liquor,which was highly pungent to the sense of smell and seemed to me tocontain phosphorus and some volatile ether. At the other ingredients Icould make no guess. The book was an ordinary version book andcontained little but a series of dates. These covered a period of manyyears, but I observed that the entries ceased nearly a year ago andquite abruptly. Here and there a brief remark was appended to a date,usually no more than a single word: “double” occurring perhaps sixtimes in a total of several hundred entries; and once very early in thelist and followed by several marks of exclamation, “total failure!!!”All this, though it whetted my curiosity, told me little that wasdefinite. Here were a phial of some salt, and the record of a series ofexperiments that had led (like too many of Jekyll’s investigations) tono end of practical usefulness. How could the presence of thesearticles in my house affect either the honour, the sanity, or the lifeof my flighty colleague? If his messenger could go to one place, whycould he not go to another? And even granting some impediment, why wasthis gentleman to be received by me in secret? The more I reflected themore convinced I grew that I was dealing with a case of cerebraldisease; and though I dismissed my servants to bed, I loaded an oldrevolver, that I might be found in some posture of self-defence.Twelve o’clock had scarce rung out over London, ere the knocker soundedvery gently on the door. I went myself at the summons, and found asmall man crouching against the pillars of the portico.“Are you come from Dr. Jekyll?” I asked.He told me “yes” by a constrained gesture; and when I had bidden himenter, he did not obey me without a searching backward glance into thedarkness of the square. There was a policeman not far off, advancingwith his bull’s eye open; and at the sight, I thought my visitorstarted and made greater haste.These particulars struck me, I confess, disagreeably; and as I followedhim into the bright light of the consulting room, I kept my hand readyon my weapon. Here, at last, I had a chance of clearly seeing him. Ihad never set eyes on him before, so much was certain. He was small, asI have said; I was struck besides with the shocking expression of hisface, with his remarkable combination of great muscular activity andgreat apparent debility of constitution, and—last but not least—withthe odd, subjective disturbance caused by his neighbourhood. This boresome resemblance to incipient rigour, and was accompanied by a markedsinking of the pulse. At the time, I set it down to some idiosyncratic,personal distaste, and merely wondered at the acuteness of thesymptoms; but I have since had reason to believe the cause to lie muchdeeper in the nature of man, and to turn on some nobler hinge than theprinciple of hatred.This person (who had thus, from the first moment of his entrance,struck in me what I can only describe as a disgustful curiosity) wasdressed in a fashion that would have made an ordinary person laughable;his clothes, that is to say, although they were of rich and soberfabric, were enormously too large for him in every measurement—thetrousers hanging on his legs and rolled up to keep them from theground, the waist of the coat below his haunches, and the collarsprawling wide upon his shoulders. Strange to relate, this ludicrousaccoutrement was far from moving me to laughter. Rather, as there wassomething abnormal and misbegotten in the very essence of the creaturethat now faced me—something seizing, surprising and revolting—thisfresh disparity seemed but to fit in with and to reinforce it; so thatto my interest in the man’s nature and character, there was added acuriosity as to his origin, his life, his fortune and status in theworld.These observations, though they have taken so great a space to be setdown in, were yet the work of a few seconds. My visitor was, indeed, onfire with sombre excitement.“Have you got it?” he cried. “Have you got it?” And so lively was hisimpatience that he even laid his hand upon my arm and sought to shakeme.I put him back, conscious at his touch of a certain icy pang along myblood. “Come, sir,” said I. “You forget that I have not yet thepleasure of your acquaintance. Be seated, if you please.” And I showedhim an example, and sat down myself in my customary seat and with asfair an imitation of my ordinary manner to a patient, as the latenessof the hour, the nature of my preoccupations, and the horror I had ofmy visitor, would suffer me to muster.“I beg your pardon, Dr. Lanyon,” he replied civilly enough. “What yousay is very well founded; and my impatience has shown its heels to mypoliteness. I come here at the instance of your colleague, Dr. HenryJekyll, on a piece of business of some moment; and I understood...” Hepaused and put his hand to his throat, and I could see, in spite of hiscollected manner, that he was wrestling against the approaches of thehysteria—“I understood, a drawer...”But here I took pity on my visitor’s suspense, and some perhaps on myown growing curiosity.“There it is, sir,” said I, pointing to the drawer, where it lay on thefloor behind a table and still covered with the sheet.He sprang to it, and then paused, and laid his hand upon his heart; Icould hear his teeth grate with the convulsive action of his jaws; andhis face was so ghastly to see that I grew alarmed both for his lifeand reason.“Compose yourself,” said I.He turned a dreadful smile to me, and as if with the decision ofdespair, plucked away the sheet. At sight of the contents, he utteredone loud sob of such immense relief that I sat petrified. And the nextmoment, in a voice that was already fairly well under control, “Haveyou a graduated glass?” he asked.I rose from my place with something of an effort and gave him what heasked.He thanked me with a smiling nod, measured out a few minims of the redtincture and added one of the powders. The mixture, which was at firstof a reddish hue, began, in proportion as the crystals melted, tobrighten in colour, to effervesce audibly, and to throw off small fumesof vapour. Suddenly and at the same moment, the ebullition ceased andthe compound changed to a dark purple, which faded again more slowly toa watery green. My visitor, who had watched these metamorphoses with akeen eye, smiled, set down the glass upon the table, and then turnedand looked upon me with an air of scrutiny.“And now,” said he, “to settle what remains. Will you be wise? will yoube guided? will you suffer me to take this glass in my hand and to goforth from your house without further parley? or has the greed ofcuriosity too much command of you? Think before you answer, for itshall be done as you decide. As you decide, you shall be left as youwere before, and neither richer nor wiser, unless the sense of servicerendered to a man in mortal distress may be counted as a kind of richesof the soul. Or, if you shall so prefer to choose, a new province ofknowledge and new avenues to fame and power shall be laid open to you,here, in this room, upon the instant; and your sight shall be blastedby a prodigy to stagger the unbelief of Satan.”“Sir,” said I, affecting a coolness that I was far from trulypossessing, “you speak enigmas, and you will perhaps not wonder that Ihear you with no very strong impression of belief. But I have gone toofar in the way of inexplicable services to pause before I see the end.”“It is well,” replied my visitor. “Lanyon, you remember your vows: whatfollows is under the seal of our profession. And now, you who have solong been bound to the most narrow and material views, you who havedenied the virtue of transcendental medicine, you who have derided yoursuperiors—behold!”He put the glass to his lips and drank at one gulp. A cry followed; hereeled, staggered, clutched at the table and held on, staring withinjected eyes, gasping with open mouth; and as I looked there came, Ithought, a change—he seemed to swell—his face became suddenly black andthe features seemed to melt and alter—and the next moment, I had sprungto my feet and leaped back against the wall, my arms raised to shieldme from that prodigy, my mind submerged in terror.“O God!” I screamed, and “O God!” again and again; for there before myeyes—pale and shaken, and half fainting, and groping before him withhis hands, like a man restored from death—there stood Henry Jekyll!What he told me in the next hour, I cannot bring my mind to set onpaper. I saw what I saw, I heard what I heard, and my soul sickened atit; and yet now when that sight has faded from my eyes, I ask myself ifI believe it, and I cannot answer. My life is shaken to its roots;sleep has left me; the deadliest terror sits by me at all hours of theday and night; and I feel that my days are numbered, and that I mustdie; and yet I shall die incredulous. As for the moral turpitude thatman unveiled to me, even with tears of penitence, I cannot, even inmemory, dwell on it without a start of horror. I will say but onething, Utterson, and that (if you can bring your mind to credit it)will be more than enough. The creature who crept into my house thatnight was, on Jekyll’s own confession, known by the name of Hyde andhunted for in every corner of the land as the murderer of Carew.HASTIE LANYON.HENRY JEKYLL’S FULL STATEMENT OF THE CASEI was born in the year 18— to a large fortune, endowed besides withexcellent parts, inclined by nature to industry, fond of the respect ofthe wise and good among my fellowmen, and thus, as might have beensupposed, with every guarantee of an honourable and distinguishedfuture. And indeed the worst of my faults was a certain impatientgaiety of disposition, such as has made the happiness of many, but suchas I found it hard to reconcile with my imperious desire to carry myhead high, and wear a more than commonly grave countenance before thepublic. Hence it came about that I concealed my pleasures; and thatwhen I reached years of reflection, and began to look round me and takestock of my progress and position in the world, I stood alreadycommitted to a profound duplicity of life. Many a man would have evenblazoned such irregularities as I was guilty of; but from the highviews that I had set before me, I regarded and hid them with an almostmorbid sense of shame. It was thus rather the exacting nature of myaspirations than any particular degradation in my faults, that made mewhat I was, and, with even a deeper trench than in the majority of men,severed in me those provinces of good and ill which divide and compoundman’s dual nature. In this case, I was driven to reflect deeply andinveterately on that hard law of life, which lies at the root ofreligion and is one of the most plentiful springs of distress. Thoughso profound a double-dealer, I was in no sense a hypocrite; both sidesof me were in dead earnest; I was no more myself when I laid asiderestraint and plunged in shame, than when I laboured, in the eye ofday, at the furtherance of knowledge or the relief of sorrow andsuffering. And it chanced that the direction of my scientific studies,which led wholly towards the mystic and the transcendental, reacted andshed a strong light on this consciousness of the perennial war among mymembers. With every day, and from both sides of my intelligence, themoral and the intellectual, I thus drew steadily nearer to that truth,by whose partial discovery I have been doomed to such a dreadfulshipwreck: that man is not truly one, but truly two. I say two, becausethe state of my own knowledge does not pass beyond that point. Otherswill follow, others will outstrip me on the same lines; and I hazardthe guess that man will be ultimately known for a mere polity ofmultifarious, incongruous and independent denizens. I, for my part,from the nature of my life, advanced infallibly in one direction and inone direction only. It was on the moral side, and in my own person,that I learned to recognise the thorough and primitive duality of man;I saw that, of the two natures that contended in the field of myconsciousness, even if I could rightly be said to be either, it wasonly because I was radically both; and from an early date, even beforethe course of my scientific discoveries had begun to suggest the mostnaked possibility of such a miracle, I had learned to dwell withpleasure, as a beloved daydream, on the thought of the separation ofthese elements. If each, I told myself, could be housed in separateidentities, life would be relieved of all that was unbearable; theunjust might go his way, delivered from the aspirations and remorse ofhis more upright twin; and the just could walk steadfastly and securelyon his upward path, doing the good things in which he found hispleasure, and no longer exposed to disgrace and penitence by the handsof this extraneous evil. It was the curse of mankind that theseincongruous faggots were thus bound together—that in the agonised wombof consciousness, these polar twins should be continuously struggling.How, then were they dissociated?I was so far in my reflections when, as I have said, a side light beganto shine upon the subject from the laboratory table. I began toperceive more deeply than it has ever yet been stated, the tremblingimmateriality, the mistlike transience, of this seemingly so solid bodyin which we walk attired. Certain agents I found to have the power toshake and pluck back that fleshly vestment, even as a wind might tossthe curtains of a pavilion. For two good reasons, I will not enterdeeply into this scientific branch of my confession. First, because Ihave been made to learn that the doom and burthen of our life is boundfor ever on man’s shoulders, and when the attempt is made to cast itoff, it but returns upon us with more unfamiliar and more awfulpressure. Second, because, as my narrative will make, alas! tooevident, my discoveries were incomplete. Enough then, that I not onlyrecognised my natural body from the mere aura and effulgence of certainof the powers that made up my spirit, but managed to compound a drug bywhich these powers should be dethroned from their supremacy, and asecond form and countenance substituted, none the less natural to mebecause they were the expression, and bore the stamp of lower elementsin my soul.I hesitated long before I put this theory to the test of practice. Iknew well that I risked death; for any drug that so potently controlledand shook the very fortress of identity, might, by the least scruple ofan overdose or at the least inopportunity in the moment of exhibition,utterly blot out that immaterial tabernacle which I looked to it tochange. But the temptation of a discovery so singular and profound atlast overcame the suggestions of alarm. I had long since prepared mytincture; I purchased at once, from a firm of wholesale chemists, alarge quantity of a particular salt which I knew, from my experiments,to be the last ingredient required; and late one accursed night, Icompounded the elements, watched them boil and smoke together in theglass, and when the ebullition had subsided, with a strong glow ofcourage, drank off the potion.The most racking pangs succeeded: a grinding in the bones, deadlynausea, and a horror of the spirit that cannot be exceeded at the hourof birth or death. Then these agonies began swiftly to subside, and Icame to myself as if out of a great sickness. There was somethingstrange in my sensations, something indescribably new and, from itsvery novelty, incredibly sweet. I felt younger, lighter, happier inbody; within I was conscious of a heady recklessness, a current ofdisordered sensual images running like a millrace in my fancy, asolution of the bonds of obligation, an unknown but not an innocentfreedom of the soul. I knew myself, at the first breath of this newlife, to be more wicked, tenfold more wicked, sold a slave to myoriginal evil; and the thought, in that moment, braced and delighted melike wine. I stretched out my hands, exulting in the freshness of thesesensations; and in the act, I was suddenly aware that I had lost instature.There was no mirror, at that date, in my room; that which stands besideme as I write, was brought there later on and for the very purpose ofthese transformations. The night however, was far gone into themorning—the morning, black as it was, was nearly ripe for theconception of the day—the inmates of my house were locked in the mostrigorous hours of slumber; and I determined, flushed as I was with hopeand triumph, to venture in my new shape as far as to my bedroom. Icrossed the yard, wherein the constellations looked down upon me, Icould have thought, with wonder, the first creature of that sort thattheir unsleeping vigilance had yet disclosed to them; I stole throughthe corridors, a stranger in my own house; and coming to my room, I sawfor the first time the appearance of Edward Hyde.I must here speak by theory alone, saying not that which I know, butthat which I suppose to be most probable. The evil side of my nature,to which I had now transferred the stamping efficacy, was less robustand less developed than the good which I had just deposed. Again, inthe course of my life, which had been, after all, nine tenths a life ofeffort, virtue and control, it had been much less exercised and muchless exhausted. And hence, as I think, it came about that Edward Hydewas so much smaller, slighter and younger than Henry Jekyll. Even asgood shone upon the countenance of the one, evil was written broadlyand plainly on the face of the other. Evil besides (which I must stillbelieve to be the lethal side of man) had left on that body an imprintof deformity and decay. And yet when I looked upon that ugly idol inthe glass, I was conscious of no repugnance, rather of a leap ofwelcome. This, too, was myself. It seemed natural and human. In my eyesit bore a livelier image of the spirit, it seemed more express andsingle, than the imperfect and divided countenance I had been hithertoaccustomed to call mine. And in so far I was doubtless right. I haveobserved that when I wore the semblance of Edward Hyde, none could comenear to me at first without a visible misgiving of the flesh. This, asI take it, was because all human beings, as we meet them, arecommingled out of good and evil: and Edward Hyde, alone in the ranks ofmankind, was pure evil.I lingered but a moment at the mirror: the second and conclusiveexperiment had yet to be attempted; it yet remained to be seen if I hadlost my identity beyond redemption and must flee before daylight from ahouse that was no longer mine; and hurrying back to my cabinet, I oncemore prepared and drank the cup, once more suffered the pangs ofdissolution, and came to myself once more with the character, thestature and the face of Henry Jekyll.That night I had come to the fatal cross-roads. Had I approached mydiscovery in a more noble spirit, had I risked the experiment whileunder the empire of generous or pious aspirations, all must have beenotherwise, and from these agonies of death and birth, I had come forthan angel instead of a fiend. The drug had no discriminating action; itwas neither diabolical nor divine; it but shook the doors of theprisonhouse of my disposition; and like the captives of Philippi, thatwhich stood within ran forth. At that time my virtue slumbered; myevil, kept awake by ambition, was alert and swift to seize theoccasion; and the thing that was projected was Edward Hyde. Hence,although I had now two characters as well as two appearances, one waswholly evil, and the other was still the old Henry Jekyll, thatincongruous compound of whose reformation and improvement I had alreadylearned to despair. The movement was thus wholly toward the worse.Even at that time, I had not conquered my aversions to the dryness of alife of study. I would still be merrily disposed at times; and as mypleasures were (to say the least) undignified, and I was not only wellknown and highly considered, but growing towards the elderly man, thisincoherency of my life was daily growing more unwelcome. It was on thisside that my new power tempted me until I fell in slavery. I had but todrink the cup, to doff at once the body of the noted professor, and toassume, like a thick cloak, that of Edward Hyde. I smiled at thenotion; it seemed to me at the time to be humourous; and I made mypreparations with the most studious care. I took and furnished thathouse in Soho, to which Hyde was tracked by the police; and engaged asa housekeeper a creature whom I knew well to be silent andunscrupulous. On the other side, I announced to my servants that a Mr.Hyde (whom I described) was to have full liberty and power about myhouse in the square; and to parry mishaps, I even called and mademyself a familiar object, in my second character. I next drew up thatwill to which you so much objected; so that if anything befell me inthe person of Dr. Jekyll, I could enter on that of Edward Hyde withoutpecuniary loss. And thus fortified, as I supposed, on every side, Ibegan to profit by the strange immunities of my position.Men have before hired bravos to transact their crimes, while their ownperson and reputation sat under shelter. I was the first that ever didso for his pleasures. I was the first that could plod in the public eyewith a load of genial respectability, and in a moment, like aschoolboy, strip off these lendings and spring headlong into the sea ofliberty. But for me, in my impenetrable mantle, the safety wascomplete. Think of it—I did not even exist! Let me but escape into mylaboratory door, give me but a second or two to mix and swallow thedraught that I had always standing ready; and whatever he had done,Edward Hyde would pass away like the stain of breath upon a mirror; andthere in his stead, quietly at home, trimming the midnight lamp in hisstudy, a man who could afford to laugh at suspicion, would be HenryJekyll.The pleasures which I made haste to seek in my disguise were, as I havesaid, undignified; I would scarce use a harder term. But in the handsof Edward Hyde, they soon began to turn toward the monstrous. When Iwould come back from these excursions, I was often plunged into a kindof wonder at my vicarious depravity. This familiar that I called out ofmy own soul, and sent forth alone to do his good pleasure, was a beinginherently malign and villainous; his every act and thought centered onself; drinking pleasure with bestial avidity from any degree of tortureto another; relentless like a man of stone. Henry Jekyll stood at timesaghast before the acts of Edward Hyde; but the situation was apart fromordinary laws, and insidiously relaxed the grasp of conscience. It wasHyde, after all, and Hyde alone, that was guilty. Jekyll was no worse;he woke again to his good qualities seemingly unimpaired; he would evenmake haste, where it was possible, to undo the evil done by Hyde. Andthus his conscience slumbered.Into the details of the infamy at which I thus connived (for even now Ican scarce grant that I committed it) I have no design of entering; Imean but to point out the warnings and the successive steps with whichmy chastisement approached. I met with one accident which, as itbrought on no consequence, I shall no more than mention. An act ofcruelty to a child aroused against me the anger of a passer-by, whom Irecognised the other day in the person of your kinsman; the doctor andthe child’s family joined him; there were moments when I feared for mylife; and at last, in order to pacify their too just resentment, EdwardHyde had to bring them to the door, and pay them in a cheque drawn inthe name of Henry Jekyll. But this danger was easily eliminated fromthe future, by opening an account at another bank in the name of EdwardHyde himself; and when, by sloping my own hand backward, I had suppliedmy double with a signature, I thought I sat beyond the reach of fate.Some two months before the murder of Sir Danvers, I had been out forone of my adventures, had returned at a late hour, and woke the nextday in bed with somewhat odd sensations. It was in vain I looked aboutme; in vain I saw the decent furniture and tall proportions of my roomin the square; in vain that I recognised the pattern of the bedcurtains and the design of the mahogany frame; something still keptinsisting that I was not where I was, that I had not wakened where Iseemed to be, but in the little room in Soho where I was accustomed tosleep in the body of Edward Hyde. I smiled to myself, and in mypsychological way, began lazily to inquire into the elements of thisillusion, occasionally, even as I did so, dropping back into acomfortable morning doze. I was still so engaged when, in one of mymore wakeful moments, my eyes fell upon my hand. Now the hand of HenryJekyll (as you have often remarked) was professional in shape and size;it was large, firm, white and comely. But the hand which I now saw,clearly enough, in the yellow light of a mid-London morning, lying halfshut on the bedclothes, was lean, corded, knuckly, of a dusky pallorand thickly shaded with a swart growth of hair. It was the hand ofEdward Hyde.I must have stared upon it for near half a minute, sunk as I was in themere stupidity of wonder, before terror woke up in my breast as suddenand startling as the crash of cymbals; and bounding from my bed Irushed to the mirror. At the sight that met my eyes, my blood waschanged into something exquisitely thin and icy. Yes, I had gone to bedHenry Jekyll, I had awakened Edward Hyde. How was this to be explained?I asked myself; and then, with another bound of terror—how was it to beremedied? It was well on in the morning; the servants were up; all mydrugs were in the cabinet—a long journey down two pairs of stairs,through the back passage, across the open court and through theanatomical theatre, from where I was then standing horror-struck. Itmight indeed be possible to cover my face; but of what use was that,when I was unable to conceal the alteration in my stature? And thenwith an overpowering sweetness of relief, it came back upon my mindthat the servants were already used to the coming and going of mysecond self. I had soon dressed, as well as I was able, in clothes ofmy own size: had soon passed through the house, where Bradshaw staredand drew back at seeing Mr. Hyde at such an hour and in such a strangearray; and ten minutes later, Dr. Jekyll had returned to his own shapeand was sitting down, with a darkened brow, to make a feint ofbreakfasting.Small indeed was my appetite. This inexplicable incident, this reversalof my previous experience, seemed, like the Babylonian finger on thewall, to be spelling out the letters of my judgment; and I began toreflect more seriously than ever before on the issues and possibilitiesof my double existence. That part of me which I had the power ofprojecting, had lately been much exercised and nourished; it had seemedto me of late as though the body of Edward Hyde had grown in stature,as though (when I wore that form) I were conscious of a more generoustide of blood; and I began to spy a danger that, if this were muchprolonged, the balance of my nature might be permanently overthrown,the power of voluntary change be forfeited, and the character of EdwardHyde become irrevocably mine. The power of the drug had not been alwaysequally displayed. Once, very early in my career, it had totally failedme; since then I had been obliged on more than one occasion to double,and once, with infinite risk of death, to treble the amount; and theserare uncertainties had cast hitherto the sole shadow on my contentment.Now, however, and in the light of that morning’s accident, I was led toremark that whereas, in the beginning, the difficulty had been to throwoff the body of Jekyll, it had of late gradually but decidedlytransferred itself to the other side. All things therefore seemed topoint to this; that I was slowly losing hold of my original and betterself, and becoming slowly incorporated with my second and worse.Between these two, I now felt I had to choose. My two natures hadmemory in common, but all other faculties were most unequally sharedbetween them. Jekyll (who was composite) now with the most sensitiveapprehensions, now with a greedy gusto, projected and shared in thepleasures and adventures of Hyde; but Hyde was indifferent to Jekyll,or but remembered him as the mountain bandit remembers the cavern inwhich he conceals himself from pursuit. Jekyll had more than a father’sinterest; Hyde had more than a son’s indifference. To cast in my lotwith Jekyll, was to die to those appetites which I had long secretlyindulged and had of late begun to pamper. To cast it in with Hyde, wasto die to a thousand interests and aspirations, and to become, at ablow and forever, despised and friendless. The bargain might appearunequal; but there was still another consideration in the scales; forwhile Jekyll would suffer smartingly in the fires of abstinence, Hydewould be not even conscious of all that he had lost. Strange as mycircumstances were, the terms of this debate are as old and commonplaceas man; much the same inducements and alarms cast the die for anytempted and trembling sinner; and it fell out with me, as it falls withso vast a majority of my fellows, that I chose the better part and wasfound wanting in the strength to keep to it.Yes, I preferred the elderly and discontented doctor, surrounded byfriends and cherishing honest hopes; and bade a resolute farewell tothe liberty, the comparative youth, the light step, leaping impulsesand secret pleasures, that I had enjoyed in the disguise of Hyde. Imade this choice perhaps with some unconscious reservation, for Ineither gave up the house in Soho, nor destroyed the clothes of EdwardHyde, which still lay ready in my cabinet. For two months, however, Iwas true to my determination; for two months, I led a life of suchseverity as I had never before attained to, and enjoyed thecompensations of an approving conscience. But time began at last toobliterate the freshness of my alarm; the praises of conscience beganto grow into a thing of course; I began to be tortured with throes andlongings, as of Hyde struggling after freedom; and at last, in an hourof moral weakness, I once again compounded and swallowed thetransforming draught.I do not suppose that, when a drunkard reasons with himself upon hisvice, he is once out of five hundred times affected by the dangers thathe runs through his brutish, physical insensibility; neither had I,long as I had considered my position, made enough allowance for thecomplete moral insensibility and insensate readiness to evil, whichwere the leading characters of Edward Hyde. Yet it was by these that Iwas punished. My devil had been long caged, he came out roaring. I wasconscious, even when I took the draught, of a more unbridled, a morefurious propensity to ill. It must have been this, I suppose, thatstirred in my soul that tempest of impatience with which I listened tothe civilities of my unhappy victim; I declare, at least, before God,no man morally sane could have been guilty of that crime upon sopitiful a provocation; and that I struck in no more reasonable spiritthan that in which a sick child may break a plaything. But I hadvoluntarily stripped myself of all those balancing instincts by whicheven the worst of us continues to walk with some degree of steadinessamong temptations; and in my case, to be tempted, however slightly, wasto fall.Instantly the spirit of hell awoke in me and raged. With a transport ofglee, I mauled the unresisting body, tasting delight from every blow;and it was not till weariness had begun to succeed, that I wassuddenly, in the top fit of my delirium, struck through the heart by acold thrill of terror. A mist dispersed; I saw my life to be forfeit;and fled from the scene of these excesses, at once glorying andtrembling, my lust of evil gratified and stimulated, my love of lifescrewed to the topmost peg. I ran to the house in Soho, and (to makeassurance doubly sure) destroyed my papers; thence I set out throughthe lamplit streets, in the same divided ecstasy of mind, gloating onmy crime, light-headedly devising others in the future, and yet stillhastening and still hearkening in my wake for the steps of the avenger.Hyde had a song upon his lips as he compounded the draught, and as hedrank it, pledged the dead man. The pangs of transformation had notdone tearing him, before Henry Jekyll, with streaming tears ofgratitude and remorse, had fallen upon his knees and lifted his claspedhands to God. The veil of self-indulgence was rent from head to foot. Isaw my life as a whole: I followed it up from the days of childhood,when I had walked with my father’s hand, and through the self-denyingtoils of my professional life, to arrive again and again, with the samesense of unreality, at the damned horrors of the evening. I could havescreamed aloud; I sought with tears and prayers to smother down thecrowd of hideous images and sounds with which my memory swarmed againstme; and still, between the petitions, the ugly face of my iniquitystared into my soul. As the acuteness of this remorse began to dieaway, it was succeeded by a sense of joy. The problem of my conduct wassolved. Hyde was thenceforth impossible; whether I would or not, I wasnow confined to the better part of my existence; and O, how I rejoicedto think of it! with what willing humility I embraced anew therestrictions of natural life! with what sincere renunciation I lockedthe door by which I had so often gone and come, and ground the keyunder my heel!The next day, came the news that the murder had not been overlooked,that the guilt of Hyde was patent to the world, and that the victim wasa man high in public estimation. It was not only a crime, it had been atragic folly. I think I was glad to know it; I think I was glad to havemy better impulses thus buttressed and guarded by the terrors of thescaffold. Jekyll was now my city of refuge; let but Hyde peep out aninstant, and the hands of all men would be raised to take and slay him.I resolved in my future conduct to redeem the past; and I can say withhonesty that my resolve was fruitful of some good. You know yourselfhow earnestly, in the last months of the last year, I laboured torelieve suffering; you know that much was done for others, and that thedays passed quietly, almost happily for myself. Nor can I truly saythat I wearied of this beneficent and innocent life; I think insteadthat I daily enjoyed it more completely; but I was still cursed with myduality of purpose; and as the first edge of my penitence wore off, thelower side of me, so long indulged, so recently chained down, began togrowl for licence. Not that I dreamed of resuscitating Hyde; the bareidea of that would startle me to frenzy: no, it was in my own personthat I was once more tempted to trifle with my conscience; and it wasas an ordinary secret sinner that I at last fell before the assaults oftemptation.There comes an end to all things; the most capacious measure is filledat last; and this brief condescension to my evil finally destroyed thebalance of my soul. And yet I was not alarmed; the fall seemed natural,like a return to the old days before I had made my discovery. It was afine, clear, January day, wet under foot where the frost had melted,but cloudless overhead; and the Regent’s Park was full of winterchirrupings and sweet with spring odours. I sat in the sun on a bench;the animal within me licking the chops of memory; the spiritual side alittle drowsed, promising subsequent penitence, but not yet moved tobegin. After all, I reflected, I was like my neighbours; and then Ismiled, comparing myself with other men, comparing my active good-willwith the lazy cruelty of their neglect. And at the very moment of thatvainglorious thought, a qualm came over me, a horrid nausea and themost deadly shuddering. These passed away, and left me faint; and thenas in its turn faintness subsided, I began to be aware of a change inthe temper of my thoughts, a greater boldness, a contempt of danger, asolution of the bonds of obligation. I looked down; my clothes hungformlessly on my shrunken limbs; the hand that lay on my knee wascorded and hairy. I was once more Edward Hyde. A moment before I hadbeen safe of all men’s respect, wealthy, beloved—the cloth laying forme in the dining-room at home; and now I was the common quarry ofmankind, hunted, houseless, a known murderer, thrall to the gallows.My reason wavered, but it did not fail me utterly. I have more thanonce observed that in my second character, my faculties seemedsharpened to a point and my spirits more tensely elastic; thus it cameabout that, where Jekyll perhaps might have succumbed, Hyde rose to theimportance of the moment. My drugs were in one of the presses of mycabinet; how was I to reach them? That was the problem that (crushingmy temples in my hands) I set myself to solve. The laboratory door Ihad closed. If I sought to enter by the house, my own servants wouldconsign me to the gallows. I saw I must employ another hand, andthought of Lanyon. How was he to be reached? how persuaded? Supposingthat I escaped capture in the streets, how was I to make my way intohis presence? and how should I, an unknown and displeasing visitor,prevail on the famous physician to rifle the study of his colleague,Dr. Jekyll? Then I remembered that of my original character, one partremained to me: I could write my own hand; and once I had conceivedthat kindling spark, the way that I must follow became lighted up fromend to end.Thereupon, I arranged my clothes as best I could, and summoning apassing hansom, drove to an hotel in Portland Street, the name of whichI chanced to remember. At my appearance (which was indeed comicalenough, however tragic a fate these garments covered) the driver couldnot conceal his mirth. I gnashed my teeth upon him with a gust ofdevilish fury; and the smile withered from his face—happily for him—yetmore happily for myself, for in another instant I had certainly draggedhim from his perch. At the inn, as I entered, I looked about me with soblack a countenance as made the attendants tremble; not a look did theyexchange in my presence; but obsequiously took my orders, led me to aprivate room, and brought me wherewithal to write. Hyde in danger ofhis life was a creature new to me; shaken with inordinate anger, strungto the pitch of murder, lusting to inflict pain. Yet the creature wasastute; mastered his fury with a great effort of the will; composed histwo important letters, one to Lanyon and one to Poole; and that hemight receive actual evidence of their being posted, sent them out withdirections that they should be registered. Thenceforward, he sat allday over the fire in the private room, gnawing his nails; there hedined, sitting alone with his fears, the waiter visibly quailing beforehis eye; and thence, when the night was fully come, he set forth in thecorner of a closed cab, and was driven to and fro about the streets ofthe city. He, I say—I cannot say, I. That child of Hell had nothinghuman; nothing lived in him but fear and hatred. And when at last,thinking the driver had begun to grow suspicious, he discharged the caband ventured on foot, attired in his misfitting clothes, an objectmarked out for observation, into the midst of the nocturnal passengers,these two base passions raged within him like a tempest. He walkedfast, hunted by his fears, chattering to himself, skulking through theless frequented thoroughfares, counting the minutes that still dividedhim from midnight. Once a woman spoke to him, offering, I think, a boxof lights. He smote her in the face, and she fled.When I came to myself at Lanyon’s, the horror of my old friend perhapsaffected me somewhat: I do not know; it was at least but a drop in thesea to the abhorrence with which I looked back upon these hours. Achange had come over me. It was no longer the fear of the gallows, itwas the horror of being Hyde that racked me. I received Lanyon’scondemnation partly in a dream; it was partly in a dream that I camehome to my own house and got into bed. I slept after the prostration ofthe day, with a stringent and profound slumber which not even thenightmares that wrung me could avail to break. I awoke in the morningshaken, weakened, but refreshed. I still hated and feared the thoughtof the brute that slept within me, and I had not of course forgottenthe appalling dangers of the day before; but I was once more at home,in my own house and close to my drugs; and gratitude for my escapeshone so strong in my soul that it almost rivalled the brightness ofhope.I was stepping leisurely across the court after breakfast, drinking thechill of the air with pleasure, when I was seized again with thoseindescribable sensations that heralded the change; and I had but thetime to gain the shelter of my cabinet, before I was once again ragingand freezing with the passions of Hyde. It took on this occasion adouble dose to recall me to myself; and alas! six hours after, as I satlooking sadly in the fire, the pangs returned, and the drug had to bere-administered. In short, from that day forth it seemed only by agreat effort as of gymnastics, and only under the immediate stimulationof the drug, that I was able to wear the countenance of Jekyll. At allhours of the day and night, I would be taken with the premonitoryshudder; above all, if I slept, or even dozed for a moment in my chair,it was always as Hyde that I awakened. Under the strain of thiscontinually impending doom and by the sleeplessness to which I nowcondemned myself, ay, even beyond what I had thought possible to man, Ibecame, in my own person, a creature eaten up and emptied by fever,languidly weak both in body and mind, and solely occupied by onethought: the horror of my other self. But when I slept, or when thevirtue of the medicine wore off, I would leap almost without transition(for the pangs of transformation grew daily less marked) into thepossession of a fancy brimming with images of terror, a soul boilingwith causeless hatreds, and a body that seemed not strong enough tocontain the raging energies of life. The powers of Hyde seemed to havegrown with the sickliness of Jekyll. And certainly the hate that nowdivided them was equal on each side. With Jekyll, it was a thing ofvital instinct. He had now seen the full deformity of that creaturethat shared with him some of the phenomena of consciousness, and wasco-heir with him to death: and beyond these links of community, whichin themselves made the most poignant part of his distress, he thoughtof Hyde, for all his energy of life, as of something not only hellishbut inorganic. This was the shocking thing; that the slime of the pitseemed to utter cries and voices; that the amorphous dust gesticulatedand sinned; that what was dead, and had no shape, should usurp theoffices of life. And this again, that that insurgent horror was knit tohim closer than a wife, closer than an eye; lay caged in his flesh,where he heard it mutter and felt it struggle to be born; and at everyhour of weakness, and in the confidence of slumber, prevailed againsthim, and deposed him out of life. The hatred of Hyde for Jekyll was ofa different order. His terror of the gallows drove him continually tocommit temporary suicide, and return to his subordinate station of apart instead of a person; but he loathed the necessity, he loathed thedespondency into which Jekyll was now fallen, and he resented thedislike with which he was himself regarded. Hence the ape-like tricksthat he would play me, scrawling in my own hand blasphemies on thepages of my books, burning the letters and destroying the portrait ofmy father; and indeed, had it not been for his fear of death, he wouldlong ago have ruined himself in order to involve me in the ruin. Buthis love of life is wonderful; I go further: I, who sicken and freeze atthe mere thought of him, when I recall the abjection and passion ofthis attachment, and when I know how he fears my power to cut him offby suicide, I find it in my heart to pity him.It is useless, and the time awfully fails me, to prolong thisdescription; no one has ever suffered such torments, let that suffice;and yet even to these, habit brought—no, not alleviation—but a certaincallousness of soul, a certain acquiescence of despair; and mypunishment might have gone on for years, but for the last calamitywhich has now fallen, and which has finally severed me from my own faceand nature. My provision of the salt, which had never been renewedsince the date of the first experiment, began to run low. I sent outfor a fresh supply and mixed the draught; the ebullition followed, andthe first change of colour, not the second; I drank it and it waswithout efficiency. You will learn from Poole how I have had Londonransacked; it was in vain; and I am now persuaded that my first supplywas impure, and that it was that unknown impurity which lent efficacyto the draught.About a week has passed, and I am now finishing this statement underthe influence of the last of the old powders. This, then, is the lasttime, short of a miracle, that Henry Jekyll can think his own thoughtsor see his own face (now how sadly altered!) in the glass. Nor must Idelay too long to bring my writing to an end; for if my narrative hashitherto escaped destruction, it has been by a combination of greatprudence and great good luck. Should the throes of change take me inthe act of writing it, Hyde will tear it in pieces; but if some timeshall have elapsed after I have laid it by, his wonderful selfishnessand circumscription to the moment will probably save it once again fromthe action of his ape-like spite. And indeed the doom that is closingon us both has already changed and crushed him. Half an hour from now,when I shall again and forever reindue that hated personality, I knowhow I shall sit shuddering and weeping in my chair, or continue, withthe most strained and fearstruck ecstasy of listening, to pace up anddown this room (my last earthly refuge) and give ear to every sound ofmenace. Will Hyde die upon the scaffold? or will he find courage torelease himself at the last moment? God knows; I am careless; this ismy true hour of death, and what is to follow concerns another thanmyself. Here then, as I lay down the pen and proceed to seal up myconfession, I bring the life of that unhappy Henry Jekyll to an end.